"Q": "How can we see from Mary's life that God knows our future?", "A": "God's message to Mary contained some amazing promises that revealed God's knowledge of the future. He revealed that her son, Jesus, would be great and called the Son of the Most High and that Jesus would reign forever. He also told her that Jesus' kingdom will never end and that He will be called the Son of God. Because God knows the future, you can trust Him with your future.", "Q": "How does Joseph's life show that God gives clear instructions?", "A": "When Joseph discovered Mary was pregnant, he wanted to do what he thought was best \" break off their engagement quietly. But God spoke to him in a dream and gave him clear instructions to follow. These instructions went against Jewish customs: a \"good\" man like Joseph would not marry a pregnant girl, and he would name his son after himself (like \"Joe Junior\" \" hey, that's kinda catchy). However, the prophecy in Isaiah 7:14 had to be fulfilled: \"All right then, the Lord himself will give you the sign. Look! The virgin will conceive a child! She will give birth to a son and will call him Immanuel.\" Immanuel means \"God with us.\" Joseph did what God told him in his dream, and the world received their Savior in part because of Joseph's obedience to God. You can trust that when God gives you instructions (either through His Word, the Bible, or even in a dream), obeying Him is always the best path.", "Q": "Did Jesus ever do anything bad when He was little?", "A": "Jesus was God in human form, so we know that He lived a completely sinless life. So we know that He didn't do anything sinful as a little kid. He may have spilled milk by mistake, just as any little kid would do -- but He didn't ever sin.", "Q": "What prophecy was fulfilled with Jesus' birth?", "A": "The prophecy quoted in Matthew 2:5-6 about the birth of Jesus comes from Micah 5:2 in the Old Testament: \"'In Bethlehem in Judea,' the wise men said, 'for this is what the prophet wrote: \"And you, O Bethlehem in the land of Judah, are not least among the ruling cities of Judah, for a ruler will come from you who will be the shepherd for my people Israel.\"'\" The wise men searched for the King of the Jews. However, Jesus is more than that \" He is the King of Kings (Revelation 19:16) whose kingdom will never end (Luke 1:33). Worship Him!", "Q": "What was the Good News that was shared with the shepherds?", "A": "The angel told the shepherds that their news of Jesus' birth was good news that would bring joy to ALL people. When they saw the truth for themselves, the shepherds immediately praised God and went to tell others. We, too, can pass on the message that \"God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, so that EVERYONE who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life\" (John 3:16). Praise God, for this Good News, which is for everyone \" even YOU!", "Q": "How does Samuel's choice of David for king show what God looks for in a leader?", "A": "The prophet Samuel had to choose a new king from the sons of Jesse in Bethlehem. He made sure to choose the person God wanted for the job. In 1 Samuel 16:4-13, the Lord gave clear instruction to Samuel on how to find the next king of Israel. The key point is made in the middle of verse seven where God says, \"The Lord doesn't see things the way you see them. People judge by outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.\" So, it our hearts that need to be right before God. The only way to make your heart right before the Lord is through having a relationship with Jesus.", "Q": "How can big challenges, like facing a giant like Goliath, turn out to be a good thing?", "A": "King Saul and his Israelite army had a problem. The Philistine Goliath dared someone to come and fight him. The Israelites were so scared that they ran away. Not until David stood up to Goliath were they able to see that, because God was with them, any one of them with faith in God could have defeated Goliath. When we face challenges in life, we should have faith in God. This will give us peace and joy, not fear like the Israelite army had. Romans 5:3-5 tells us that, \"We can rejoice, too, when we run into problem and trials, for we know that they help us develop endurance.\"", "Q": "What can we learn from David's response to his family?", "A": "David was the \"little\" brother in his family. While three of his brothers were listening to Goliath's challenge, David was in Bethlehem taking care of his father's sheep. Then Jesse gave him another job to do. Sometimes, we want to do something bigger and better than what we are in the middle of doing. It's important to God that we are faithful in ordinary, everyday things. It allows God to trust us to do even bigger things! David understood this, and he acted responsibly by leaving the sheep in the care of another shepherd before going to see his brothers on the battlefield. Here are three guidelines from the Bible on family relationships: \"Children, obey your parents because you belong to the Lord, for this is the right thing to do\" (Ephesians 6:1-2a). \"Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger by the way you treat them. Rather, bring them up with the discipline and instruction that comes from the Lord\" (Ephesians 6:4). \"Love each other with genuine affection, and take delight in honoring each other. Live in harmony with each other\" (Romans:12:10,16a).", "Q": "How did David's past experiences help him for the future?", "A": "David's brothers looked down on him as being too \"little\" or young. When David stood in front of King Saul, the king's response was the same (1 Samuel 17:30-39). That might have made some people upset, but David persisted and talked about his past experiences to prove he was not too young. God created you uniquely (Psalm 139) and has a plan and purpose for your life (Jeremiah 29:11). The experiences you go through--both good and bad--are woven into this plan, making you stronger. Past experiences prepare you for the future as they influence the way you think, feel, and act. David experienced God's help and protection in the past, and he used this knowledge to help him trust that God would be there for him in the future. You can do the same. Like David, you should also focus on developing and using your gifts and talents so that they can become a meaningful part of your life and something God can use in the future.", "Q": "Can a normal kid learn anything from the story of David and Goliath?", "A": "We may not have to face actual giants like Goliath in our lives, but we may have fears or problems that appear just as big to us. Like David, we can rely on God's strength to help us be victorious. You + God is ALWAYS bigger than any of your enemies or challenges. David knew and admitted that he couldn't fight Goliath in his own strength. He relied upon the power of the Lord. He said, \"This is the Lord's battle,\" and stated that the result would be that \"the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel\" (1 Samuel 17:46b). He focused on God and not on himself. He didn't take the glory for bringing down a giant \" David gave that glory to the Lord. When we face challenges, we should focus on God's strength and power and praise Him when He helps us (Psalm 44:7-8).", "Q": "What does \"pride comes before the fall\" mean? How does that relate to Satan?", "A": "Lucifer was a beautiful angel who was proud, vain, and selfishly ambitious. He wanted to be like God. He planned a rebellion amongst the angels, and a great battle took place in heaven. The result? Satan fell from heaven (Isaiah 14:12-15). Ouch. Bad move. Lucifer became what we refer to as \"the fallen angel\" or the Devil or Satan. In your life, you need to guard against your own attitudes and actions. The Bible warns us of having selfish ambitions (Galatians 5:20) and encourages us to demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. Obey God so that the saying, \"Pride goes before a fall,\" (which comes from Proverbs 16:18) doesn't become true in your life.", "Q": "Can we be creative like God?", "A": "The answer is yes and no! Confused? Well, we were created in God's image. Since God is THE Creator, we also have the ability to be creative. One big difference is that whatever we make, we create from something that already exists. The Bible tells us that God created something out of nothing. He created the universe and everything in it by only speaking. God said, \"Let there be light\" (Genesis 1:3), and, \"Let us make...\" (Genesis 1:26) \" and then it came TRUE. The Bible teaches us that God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit (the Trinity or Triune--that is, three-in-one--God) were present at Creation in the beginning (Genesis 1:1).", "Q": "Could Adam and Eve have obeyed God and not eaten from the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil?", "A": "God gave Adam and Eve two rules to obey: Do eat any fruit in the garden, but don't eat the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil (Genesis 2:16). Adam and Eve chose to obey God until they gave into the temptation of the serpent. God placed Adam and Eve in a beautiful world, gave them clear instructions, and the freedom to follow those rules. When Satan tempted Eve, she could have said \"no.\" Adam and Eve chose to disobey God and to do what they wanted to do instead. We all need to learn obedience: to choose to resist temptation and to obey God. Deuteronomy 11:26-28 emphasizes this choice. The Lord's message is this: \"Look, today I am giving you the choice between a blessing and a curse! You will be blessed if you obey the commands of the LORD your God that I am giving you today. But you will be cursed if you reject the commands of the LORD your God and turn away from him and worship gods you have not known before.\"", "Q": "How does the story of Adam and Eve show us that actions have consequences?", "A": "Adam and Eve disobeyed God. But when God asked them what happened, Adam blamed Eve, and then Eve blamed the serpent. They sinned, and there were consequences to their actions. Those consequences included a broken relationship with God. When you toss a stone into a lake, it will ripple on and on and on, making waves much larger than the stone itself. That is a consequence. A consequence is a result or an effect. All actions have consequences, either good or bad, depending on the action. There are many instances in the Bible where we see consequences in action \" sometimes for good and sometimes not so good. These follow an \"If (action), then (consequence)\" pattern. Genesis 3:3 - \"If you eat the fruit, then you will die.\" Exodus 20:12 - \"If you honor your mother and father, then you will live long.\" Deuteronomy 6:3 - \"If you obey then all will go well with you.\" 1 John 1:8 - \"If we claim we have no sin, then we are only fooling ourselves and not living in the truth.\" 1 John 1:9 - \"But if we confess our sins to him, then he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all wickedness.\" Romans 6:23 - If you sin, then the consequence is death. If you accept Jesus as your Savior, then you will receive eternal life.\"", "Q": "How could the story of Adam and Eve have a happy ending?", "A": "After Adam and Eve disobeyed God, He sent them out of Eden and made it so that they could never return (Genesis 3:22-24). I know what you're thinking: This story ends sad. But the story of Adam and Eve doesn't end here. God's plan for them reveals forgiveness and hope. The Bible teaches that God has a plan (a hope and a future) for all mankind \" and that includes YOU, personally. (Jeremiah 29:11). Aren't you glad that God plans ahead? Sin separates you from God, but God has always had a plan for you. From Genesis to Revelation, we read about God's plan of salvation. In the Old Testament, there are many \"pictures,\" references, or stories that point to Jesus. When God spoke to the serpent, He referred to Christ's victory over Satan through Jesus' death on the cross: \"And I will put enmity between you and the woman, And between your seed and her Seed; He shall bruise your head, And you shall bruise His heel\" (Genesis 3:15, NKJV). When God made clothing out of animal skins, it has been said that it points to Jesus, the Lamb of God, who died to save us. Have you thought about Noah's Ark representing salvation through Jesus (Genesis 6, Hebrews 11:7)? Or Jonah being entombed in the great fish for three days before being released (Jonah 1:17, Matthew 12:40)? God's plan for your life involves forgiveness (John 3:16, 1 John 1:9) and gives \"a hope and a future\" (Jeremiah 29:11).", "Q": "How can we learn from Daniel how to do what is right?", "A": "In Daniel 1:8, we read that, \"Daniel was determined not to defile himself.\" We make decisions on what we believe is right. That's why it is important to know what we believe and why we believe it. You can know what to believe by reading the Bible. The Bible says that \"all Scripture is inspired by God and is useful to teach us what is true and to make us realize what is wrong in our lives. It corrects us when we are wrong and teaches us to do what is right\" (2 Timothy 3:16).", "Q": "How did Daniel exemplify godly character?", "A": "In Daniel 6:4, we read that the other officials couldn't find any reason to criticize Daniel. He was faithful and honest and always responsible. God looks at the heart of man (1 Samuel 16:7), and it is character that counts with Him. God calls us to holy living (1 Peter 2:13-16) and commands us to show the fruit of the Spirit (Galatians 5:22-26) in our lives. Some of the godly values that Daniel showed were faithfulness, responsibility, and trustworthiness (Daniel 6:4). He also was thankful and prayed consistently (Daniel 6:10).", "Q": "How does Daniel's life show us that we should stand up for and act on what we believe?", "A": "In Daniel 6:10, we read that \"when Daniel learned that the law against praying to anyone except the King had been signed, he went home and knelt down as usual in his upstairs room, with its window open towards Jerusalem. He prayed three times a day, just as he had always done, giving thanks to his God.\" Isn't that amazing? Daniel trusted God so much that he did exactly what God asked of him, even when things were difficult! Our actions will speak for us. We, too, need to trust God and stand up for what we believe, even in difficult circumstances. Also, the Holy Spirit will help us during these types of difficult times.", "Q": "Does the life of Daniel model a good way for us to pray?", "A": "Of course it does. In Daniel 6:10, we read that Daniel \"prayed three times a day, just as he had always done, giving thanks to his God.\" Now three times a day isn't some sort of magic number, but it is obvious that, for Daniel, prayer (time talking with God) was very important. Communicating with God was a value in his life. It was also a discipline -- he prayed regularly every day. To grow as a Christian, we need to make prayer, as well as reading the Bible and doing a daily devotion, a daily discipline. Because Daniel kept his relationship with God strong, he was quick to bring his request to God when he found himself in danger.", "Q": "How did Daniel's life of integrity affect others?", "A": "Daniel was a man of integrity. This quality influenced people and nations. In Daniel 6:25-26, King Darius sent a message to the people of every race and nation and language throughout the world. He told them to respect and fear Daniel's God, the living God whose kingdom will never be destroyed and who performs miracles. Daniel's integrity had a ripple effect. In the same way, our integrity can also influence the people around us. Remember, God will enable you to live a life of integrity.", "Q": "How did Abraham's life show that God wants to bless us?", "A": "God promised Abram (Abraham) the gifts of land, a son, and many descendants. God encouraged Abram by showing him the stars in the night sky. Like the stars, Abram's descendants will be too many to count. God is a loving and giving God who wants to bless His people. He promises to protect you, and He encourages you to not be afraid. When God blesses you, it is so that you will be a blessing to others.", "Q": "What can we learn from Abraham and Sarah having a baby when they were \"too old\" to have a baby?", "A": "Nothing is too difficult for God to do! When you realize that God is the Creator of everything, that He is Almighty, and that His \"is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory and the majesty\" (1 Chronicles 29:11), it makes sense that nothing is too hard for the Lord (Genesis 18:14, Jeremiah 32:17) and that, \"Nothing is impossible with God\" (Luke 1:37). Nothing! Absolutely nothing!", "Q": "How can we have a relationship with God like Abraham's relationship with God?", "A": "God offered Abram a gift of a special friendship or relationship with HIM! That's right: a special friendship with GOD HIMSELF! It was a gift that would last forever. Adam and Eve tainted their relationship with God by sinning. The result is that, \"Everyone has sinned; we all fall short of God's glorious standard\" (Romans 3:23). When you confess your sin and accept Jesus as Savior, your relationship with God the Father is restored. \"The wages of sin is death but the free gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord\" (Romans 6:23). You become a child of God and have eternal life. Your relationship with God is forever!", "Q": "What does Abraham's life show us as to what should be most important to us?", "A": "We can learn from Abraham that we should put God first before everything else. God was at the top of Abraham's list. He had faith in God and trusted in God's promises. He obeyed God and put God first above all else, even his love for his only son. In 1 Samuel 15:22, God says that \"obedience is better than sacrifice.\" Jesus said, \"Seek the Kingdom of God above all else and live righteously, and he will give you everything you need\" (Matthew 6:33). In other words, put God first above all else.", "Q": "Does Abraham's experience with Isaac show us that God will provide for us?", "A": "It sure does! Sometimes we find ourselves in tough situations where we don't think anything or anyone can get us out. But God is a provider \" and when we obey Him, He always has a plan. God provided the ram for Abraham's sacrifice. It took the place of Abraham's only son. This is a \"picture\" for us of how God provided salvation for sinners. It was through the sacrificial death of His only Son Jesus (the Lamb of God) on the cross. Jesus is God's Perfect Gift to you. Read John 3:16. Replace the words \"the world\" and \"everyone\" with your own name.", "Q": "How was Stephen empowered to share about God's love, even with those who killed him?", "A": "Stephen had received the Holy Spirit as a follower of Jesus. Before Jesus ascended into heaven, He promised his followers that they would receive the Holy Spirit who would give them the power to tell people about Him everywhere. This promise came true at Pentecost. The disciples became changed people, people of power. All Christians have God's power. If you are a follower of Jesus, so do you!", "Q": "How does Paul's life show that following Jesus may lead to suffering?", "A": "Well, there are two ways. Before Paul became a follower of Christ, he was the one persecuting Christians. After he started following Jesus, he ended up being the one that was persecuted for his faith. Becoming a Christian guarantees you an eternal future with God in heaven, but it doesn't guarantee you a life without difficulties, even persecution, on earth. The early Christians suffered great persecution for believing in Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Jesus Himself was arrested, beaten, and put to death on a cross. You may not experience life-threatening persecution, but you may experience people laughing at you, leaving you out of their circle of friends, avoiding you, and teasing or mocking you for being a follower of Jesus. Jesus said, \"God blesses those who are persecuted for doing right, for God, for the Kingdom of Heaven is theirs\" (Matthew 5:10).", "Q": "How does the story of Paul's conversion show us that we need to follow Jesus and not a religion?", "A": "Some people are so caught up in religion that they can't hear what Jesus is truly saying to them. Saul was a sincere and zealous follower of religious laws and customs. However, Jesus met him on the road to Damascus, and Saul learned that instead of following religion, he should follow Jesus. Following Jesus means having a personal relationship with Him, not just following a set of rules and regulations.", "Q": "How does the life of Ananias show the importance of obedience?", "A": "Imagine if Ananias had not obeyed God's instruction to \"Go!\" Saul would not have become a believer, and the message of the Gospel would not have been taken to \"the Gentiles and to kings, as well as to the people of Israel\" (Acts 9:15). Saul, later named Paul, would not have written the many letters we have in the New Testament. Ananias heard \" and obeyed. Because of that, history was changed. When God gives you an instruction, obey!", "Q": "How can the story of Paul's conversion encourage those who think they have too many bad things to become a Christian?", "A": "God wants you to follow Him and not go your own way. He can help you change direction. He can also help you change whatever needs to change for your life to bring honor to Him; that could be your beliefs, thoughts, attitudes, habits, or actions. Saul completely changed his life with the power of God. God can help you change, too!", "Q": "How can you trust God to provide what you need like He did for the Israelites in the desert?", "A": "One of God's names is Jehovah Jireh, which means \"God will provide.\" This doesn't mean God will give you whatever you want (he's God \" not a genie in a bottle), but He will provide you with what you need. God promises to provide for those who love and obey Him. We can trust Him to do so because He always keeps His promises. In Philippians 4:19, the Apostle Paul writes that, \"This same God who takes care of me will supply all your needs from his glorious riches, which have been given to us in Christ Jesus.\" Instead of complaining or being demanding, trust God to provide what you need. He is always faithful!", "Q": "Does God really need to be first in your life?", "A": "God gave the people of Israel (and us) the Ten Commandments to help and protect them. The first commandments are about God's relationship with His people, both communities and individuals. \"Put God first\" means exactly that. God wants to be number one in your life. Make Him the most important person in your life. When asked what the most important commandment was, Jesus said, \"You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind\" (Matthew 22:37). This is the key focus of God's rules and Jesus' teachings.", "Q": "Why is it important to follow God's rules?", "A": "A train that stays on the tracks is free to go fast and to do what it is designed to do. When there are no tracks, trains can't go anywhere. God's rules for living are like tracks. If we follow them we experience freedom and fulfillment and we live as God designed us to live. Put God first and follow His rules for living.", "Q": "What can you learn from Aaron's response to Moses after he made the golden calf?", "A": "Although Aaron told the people to give him their gold earrings, he made excuses and even lied to Moses when Moses confronted him. He did not take responsibility for his own actions. The Israelites became impatient and disobeyed God. The consequences for their sin were very serious. However, God loves us so much that, instead of punishing us for our wrong actions, He made a way for us to be forgiven: Jesus took the punishment for our sin when he died on the cross. You need to take responsibility for your own actions and confess your sin. God has promised to forgive you through Jesus Christ. God is a God of compassion and mercy, slow to anger and filled with unfailing love and faithfulness. In the Bible, you can also learn from reading about people's mistakes so that you can avoid those same mistakes in the future.", "Q": "How can spending time with God (like Moses did) change our lives?", "A": "Spending time with God changes us. For Moses, his face became radiant. Being in God's presence, praying, speaking Him, reading His Word, and learning about Him changes us on the inside. We are filled with God's Spirit and love, and He gives us power, strength, and wisdom to live each day for Him: \"And the Lord - who is the Spirit - makes us more and more like Him as we are changed into His glorious image\" (2 Corinthians 3:18). As you spend time with God, God will change you on the inside, and you will become more like Him and His character.", "Q": "How can we believe that Jesus has the power to help and heal us?", "A": "It is one thing to know with our heads that Jesus has the power to help and to heal. It is another thing to really believe it and to trust that He will do it. The Bible teaches us that we should ask Jesus for what we need and to have faith that He will hear and answer our prayers. In Matthew 7:7, we read that Jesus said, \"Keep on asking, and you will receive what you ask for.\" And in 1 Peter 2:24, Peter tells us that Jesus \"personally carried our sins in his body on the cross, so that we can be dead to sin and live for what is right. By his wounds you are healed.\"", "Q": "Why should you bring people to Jesus?", "A": "Andrew brought his brother, Simon, to meet Jesus. They both followed Jesus and Simon became Peter (which means \"the rock\"), a leader in the early church. The four friends brought the paralyzed man to Jesus, and his healing amazed the people who praised God. Jesus invites everyone to come to Him: \"Come to me, all who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest\" (Matthew 11:28). Jesus also offers healing, forgiveness, and eternal life. What good reasons to help bring others to Jesus!", "Q": "Why should you have faith and trust in Jesus?", "A": "Jesus, the Son of God, is all-powerful. He wants you not to be afraid but to have faith. In John 14:1, Jesus says, \"Don't let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God, and trust also in me.\" King David, who faced many troubles, wrote, \"But when I am afraid, I will put my trust in you. I praise God for what he has promised. I trust in God, so why should I be afraid?\" (Psalm 56:3-4). No matter what you are facing, Jesus promises to be with you always. Put your trust in Him and let His peace calm you like He calmed the wind and the waves.", "Q": "Why should you tell others about Jesus?", "A": "The miracles that Jesus performed show us that He is all-powerful. He has the power over both the physical world and the spiritual world. Jesus came to earth to reveal God to us. He showed us that the way back to God and to eternal life is through realizing we are sinners, confessing our sin, and believing that Jesus died on the cross for us. This is the Gospel or Good News. Like the demon-possessed man whom Jesus healed, you, too, can go and tell others \"the great things Jesus has done\" in your life.", "Q": "Why should you believe and live out God's Word?", "A": "In James 2:17, we read that, \"Faith by itself isn't enough. Unless it produces good deeds, it is dead and useless.\" You need to not only hear and believe God's Word, but you need to live out God's Word and show the fruit of the Spirit in your daily life. By showing love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control and doing good works, you will be letting \"your good deeds shine out for all to see, so that everyone will praise your heavenly Father\" (Matthew 5:16).", "Q": "What does the Bible say about being humble?", "A": "Sometimes, it's really hard to not get prideful, especially when people applaud the things you are good at. In 1 Peter 3:8, Peter encourages all Christians to \"keep a humble attitude.\" Humility is a characteristic or value that pleases God. He detests the proud (Proverbs 16:5). Jesus said in Luke 18:14 that those who humble themselves will be exalted. In Romans 12:3, you are encouraged to \"not think you are better than you really are.\" Don't show off or try to prove you are better than others.", "Q": "How should we act in church and in God's presence?", "A": "The people who believe in Jesus are called His \"church,\" and God promises to be present in spirit where His church gathers. We often set aside special places and buildings for the church to gather and worship God--and we call these places \"church,\" too! As Christians, we can respect and honor God in what we say and how we behave. In a place of worship, we show respect by treating the space as a \"house of God.\" (But remember: God doesn't live in the building; He lives in His people!) Some of the people in the Bible who experienced God's presence in a special way were Moses (Exodus 3), Paul (Acts 9:3-8), and the 5,000 at Pentecost (Acts 2).", "Q": "Should we give God our best?", "A": "The immoral woman used a jar of expensive perfume to \"anoint\" Jesus before His burial (Luke 7:44-48). Some disciples thought it was a waste of money (it was worth a year's salary!), but she gave a precious gift to Jesus. Nothing is more important than giving God our best. Honor Him and put Him first in all you do (Proverbs 3:9).", "Q": "What did Jesus' life and words tell us about serving others?", "A": "When He did the work of a servant by washing the disciples' feet, Jesus gave us an example of serving others selflessly. Instead of trying to always be \"number one,\" Jesus wants us to behave differently. He teaches that \"those who are the greatest among you should take the lowest rank, and the leader should be like a servant\" (Luke 22:26). And one of his commands to us is, \"Do as I have done\" (John 13:15). Service often requires sacrifice. Jesus paid the ultimate sacrifice when He died for us on the cross. In Matthew 20:28, Jesus said, \"For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve others and to give His life as a ransom for many.\"", "Q": "Why do Christians take communion?", "A": "Have you ever forgotten something? Human beings are often forgetful. We forget the good things they do for one another \" and we sometimes forget the good things God has done for us. By using the bread and wine, Jesus gave us something to help us remember His sacrificial death. Christian churches celebrate communion during services to obey Jesus' command for us to \"Remember\" (1 Corinthians 11:24-25). Remember God's love and Jesus' sacrifice as often as you can. Memorize and remember John 3:16: \"For God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.\"", "Q": "What does the Bible say about the uniqueness of two people like Jacob and Esau?", "A": "Isn't it amazing how no two people have the same fingerprints? God creates each of us as unique individuals. Even before you are born, God knows all about you (Psalm 139:13-16). Celebrate diversity, accept the differences between people, and thank God for what makes you unique.", "Q": "How does the story of Jacob and Esau show that our actions have consequences?", "A": "All actions have consequences, whether big or small, positive or negative, short-lived or long-lasting. \"Ifthen\" is a \"cause-effect\" principle in life that we see throughout the Bible. Back in the beginning, there were consequences to Adam and Eve's actions, which affect every human being \" including you. Your actions affect not only you but others, as well. Try to think of possible consequences before you act.", "Q": "Should you seek out forgiveness when you have wronged somebody?", "A": "God is quick to forgive us \" but we aren't always so quick to forgive others. The Bible teaches us that God is a forgiving God. When we seek His forgiveness, He has PROMISED to forgive us (1 John 1:9). Jesus spoke a lot about forgiveness when He was on earth and emphasized the importance of forgiveness. Jesus said, \"Forgive others, and you will be forgiven\" (Luke 6:37). He also warned us of the consequences of unforgiveness in the parable of the Unforgiving Debtor (Matthew 18:23-35). The parable of the Lost Son (Luke 15) emphasizes repentance but also illustrates how we need to make an effort and seek forgiveness when we have wronged someone.", "Q": "How does Jacob's life show that you cannot outrun God?", "A": "Back in Jacob's time, people believed that their gods were only in the places where they lived. However, Jacob learned that the Lord God is everywhere. While on the run from his brother, his dream made him realize that God was still with him. You can run from people, but you cannot run or hide from God. God has promised to be with you always.", "Q": "Why should you pray when you face a difficult task?", "A": "Follow Jesus' example and pray when you face a difficult task. God has promised to answer you, be near you, and guide you. Memorize verses about God's help and use them in your prayers.", "Q": "Was Jesus' life a good example of submitting to God's will?", "A": "Yes! In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus told the men who arrested Him that He could ask His Father for thousands of angels to protect them, but that would prevent the Scriptures being fulfilled (Matthew 26:54). Jesus submitted to God's will and plan for His life. You can follow His example by knowing that God has a plan for your life and submitting to His will instead of trying to \"do your own thing.\"", "Q": "Did Jesus model how to stand firm in the face of opposition?", "A": "Yes. Jesus' life is an example of how you can remain calm and stand firm when you face opposition. Being falsely accused, laughed at, or teased is hurtful, but Jesus understands because He experienced it Himself. Jesus also teaches you to \"turn the other cheek\" (Matthew 5:39), to love your enemies (Luke 6:27), and to forgive those who act against you (Matthew 6:12). Bless those who oppose you, and pray for them (Romans 12:14). When you face opposition, stand firm, put on the whole armor of God (Ephesians 6:10-17), and \"resist the devil\" (James 4:7).", "Q": "How can Jesus connect us to God?", "A": " In the book of Romans especially, you will find the truth that your sin separates you from God - but Jesus, through His sacrificial death on the cross, has made it possible for you to have relationship with God. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God (Romans 3:23). The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord (Romans 6:23). But God showed his great love for us by sending Christ to die for us while we were still sinners (Romans 5:8). If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved (Romans 10:9). This SuperTruth is also expressed clearly in the following verses: Colossians 1:20: \"And through him God reconciled everything to himself. He made peace with everything in heaven and on earth by means of Christ's blood on the cross.\" John 1:12: \"But to all who believed him and accepted him, he gave the right to become children of God.\"", "Q": "Why should you tell others about Jesus?", "A": "Christians believe in a risen Savior. Jesus is the Son of God who rose from the dead and is alive. His burial tomb is empty. Your faith is not in a dead person or a stone idol but in a living person. He loves you and is present with you through God, the Holy Spirit. Obey Jesus and tell others that He is alive. Pass on the good news. Tell people about Him everywhere (Acts 1:8). In Matthew 28:19-20, Jesus encouraged his followers to, \"Go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach these new disciples to obey all the commands I have given you. And be sure of this: I am with you always, even to the end of the age.\" This is what is referred to as the Great Commission.", "Q": "Why would God want the people of Nineveh to repent of their sins?", "A": "God didn't want to have to punish the people of Nineveh for their sins. He wanted to be merciful to them. Sin brings bad things in our lives. God wants to protect us, so He wants us to say we are sorry if we do something wrong. The Bible says in 1 John 1:9, \"But if we confess our sins to him, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all wickedness.\" When we say we are sorry for our sin, God washes it away as if it never happened. God says through the prophet Micah, \"Once again you will have compassion on us. You will trample our sins under your feet and throw them into the depths of the ocean!\" (Micah 7:19). It's like God forgets that we have ever sinned. \"'Come now, let's settle this,' says the LORD. 'Though your sins are like scarlet, I will make them as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, I will make them as white as wool'\" (Isaiah 1:18). That is really Good News, isn't it!", "Q": "Why is it important for us to obey God?", "A": "God wants to have a relationship with us and to bless us. When we are obedient to Him, then He can bless us. But when we are disobedient, our sin blocks His blessings and makes Him sad. The Bible says in Galatians 6:7, \"Don't be misled--you cannot mock the justice of God. You will always harvest what you plant.\" If we \"plant\" disobedience, then we will \"harvest\" bad things in our lives. If we \"plant\" obedience, we will harvest blessings. God is our Heavenly Father, and He wants us to walk in obedience to Him so that He can pour out His blessings on us. He blesses us so that we can bless others.", "Q": "Why do you think it is important to tell the people you love that you are sorry when you hurt them?", "A": "The Bible describes love in 1 Corinthians, chapter 13. It says, \"Love is patient and kind.\" If we hurt someone that we love, the kind thing to do is to say we are sorry. When we apologize and take responsibility for the things we do wrong, it heals the wounds and builds trust.", "Q": "Why was God willing to forgive the people of Nineveh, even if they were cruel to the Israelites?", "A": "Everybody makes mistakes. The Bible tells us that, \"For everyone has sinned; we all fall short of God's glorious standard\" (Romans 3:23). God created everyone on the earth, and He loves every single person who has ever been born. He knew that the people of Nineveh had sinned. But He also knew that the people of Israel had sinned. His mercy for the people of Nineveh was as great as His mercy for the people of Israel -- that is why He sent Jonah to warn them. He wants everyone who does wrong to repent and say they are sorry, so that He can continue to bless them. The wonderful promise from the book of Psalms tells us, \"For his unfailing love toward those who fear him is as great as the height of the heavens above the earth. He has removed our sins as far from us as the east is from the west\" (Psalm 103:11-12). So if you see someone doing wrong, don't judge or criticize them. Pray that they would do right and say they are sorry for their sin, just like the people of Nineveh did.", "Q": "Why did God give the people of Nineveh a second chance?", "A": "The Bible tells us that \"God is love\" (1 John 4:8). Just think of that! He not only LOVES (the verb); He IS love (the noun). The Bible also tells us that God is full of mercy towards those who do wrong. The Psalm writers declares, \"The LORD is merciful and compassionate, slow to get angry and filled with unfailing love\" (Psalm 145:8). God doesn't just give us second chances. Sometimes He gives us third, fourth, fifth, and more chances to repent and make things right. God sent Jonah to tell the people of Nineveh to repent because of His love and mercy. He didn't want to harm the people of that ancient city just like He doesn't want to harm anyone today. God knows that our sin can bring harm to us, so He warns us to stop sinning, just like He did with the people of Nineveh.", "Q": "When things around us seem to be going bad, what can we learn from Joseph's experiences?", "A": "As a young boy, Joseph's life seemed ideal! He had received encouraging dreams from God and his father loved him very much -- but his life events took a drastic turn. Joseph's jealous brothers tossed him in a pit (Genesis 37:22), sold him into slavery (Genesis 37:27), and then Joseph ended up in prison (Genesis 39:19-20). Throughout these ordeals, Joseph kept his faith in God. By relying on God to help him interpret Pharaoh's dreams, Joseph was given the role of Governor of Egypt. Joseph's life shows us that even when things seem bad, we need to hold fast to God and trust that He will see us through life's challenging situations (2 Thessalonians 3:3).", "Q": "When people falsely accuse you, like they did to Joseph, how should you respond?", "A": "Joseph wanted to perform well as a servant to Potiphar, but Potiphar's wife lied about Joseph. Potiphar threw Joseph in prison. This hurt Joseph. Instead of becoming bitter, Joseph chose to trust in God throughout his trials in prison. As a result, \"the Lord was with him; he showed him kindness and granted him favor in the eyes of the prison warden\" (Genesis 39:21-23). The warden put him in charge over all those held in prison. God blessed Joseph to have success in whatever he did. Learn from Joseph. Do not lie. Be brave enough to tell the truth. And when people lie about you, do not seek revenge. Jesus taught us to, \"Pray for those who persecute you! In that way, you will be acting as true children of your Father in heaven\" (Matthew 5:44-45a).", "Q": "Does God still speak through dreams like He did to Joseph?", "A": "Yes! The Bible tells us that God speaks through many different ways, including dreams. But everything that we believe is a message from God should be tested by making sure it is found in the Bible. In Acts 2:17, the Apostle Peter quotes the prophet Joel from the Old Testament: \"'In the last days,' God says, 'I will pour out my Spirit upon all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams.'\" This is one of the ways that God will speak to us and reveal His will to us. The Bible says in Job 33:14-15, \"For God speaks again and again, though people do not recognize it. He speaks in dreams, in visions of the night, when deep sleep falls on people as they lie in their beds.\" God promises that we will hear His voice (John 10:27), and He sometimes uses our dreams to help us hear Him clearly.", "Q": "Why does God let bad things happen like allowing Joseph to become a slave?", "A": "God has given each person on earth the right to choose good or evil \" just like He did with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden (Genesis 3). Sometimes, when people choose to do bad things, innocent people can get hurt. That is why it is important that we do the right thing all the time. The book of James teaches us, \"Dear brothers and sisters, when troubles come your way, consider it an opportunity for great joy. For you know that when your faith is tested, your endurance has a chance to grow\" (James 1:2-3). We live in a sinful world where some people do bad things to other people. But if we put our trust in God and forgive those who hurt us, the Lord can turn bad things to good in our lives. The Apostle Paul tells us, \"And we know that God causes everything to work together for the good of those who love God and are called according to his purpose for them\" (Romans 8:28).", "Q": "Bad things happen in our lives. What can we learn from Joseph's example?", "A": "The Lord revealed to Joseph that He was the one who sent him to Egypt, even though he used his brothers to do it. In Genesis 45:7, Joseph tells his brothers, \"God has sent me ahead of you to keep you and your families alive and to preserve many survivors.\" Sometimes it looks like the bad things that are happening in our lives could never be a part of God's plan. When Joseph was sold into slavery, betrayed, or sent to jail, he probably questioned God. But later he realized that the Lord had a purpose in all the trouble -- to preserve the promise He made to Abraham. God will protect you through trouble if you put your trust in Him. Psalm 18:2 says, \"The Lord is my rock, my fortress, and my savior; my God is my rock, in whom I find protection. He is my shield, the power that saves me, and my place of safety.\" So when things get hard in your life, take a moment to thank God that He is working it all out for your good -- and for His loving plan.", "Q": "How does Moses' life show us that God can use us?", "A": "God can use you to help others. Moses had done wrong and was full of excuses. But God had prepared him for the task of leading the Israelites out of Egypt. As prince of Egypt, he learned leadership skills. When he fled to Midian, he spent years learning about the land. He eventually led the people of Israel through this land. God can also use you to help people. If there is something you need to do for God, however small, don't make excuses. Instead, trust that God will help you accomplish the task. For example, if you feel God saying you should speak to a lonely person at school, don't make the excuse that you are shy or that you don't know that person well enough. God will be with you (Exodus 4:12).", "Q": "Why did God tell Moses and Aaron to work as a team?", "A": "Many people like to be independent and to work alone. Group work often requires humility, patience, and tolerance. As part of a team, you learn to work with others (1 Corinthians 12:27). By sharing and working with each other, Moses and Aaron were able to accomplish more (Romans 12:4-5). Remember to make God your team leader.", "Q": "What can we learn from Pharaoh's stubbornness?", "A": "God spoke to Pharaoh through Moses and Aaron, but Pharaoh refused to listen. This caused Pharaoh to suffer. The Israelites listened to God's promise to deliver them from Egypt (Exodus 6:6-8), and He did. God gave the Israelites both a warning and a promise: \"If you will listen carefully to the voice of the Lord your God and do what is right in his sight, obeying his commands and keeping all his decrees, then I will not make you suffer any of the diseases I sent on the Egyptians; for I am the Lord who heals you\" (Exodus 15:26). You can trust God to do what He says. You can also believe in all His promises and warnings in the Bible. When God speaks, listen carefully.", "Q": "What do God's instructions to the Israelites teach us?", "A": "God's instructions teach us to do what is right. In the Bible, God has given us warnings and instructions for right living (2 Timothy 3:16). For example, God warns us against worshiping idols (Exodus 20:3-5), gossiping (Proverbs 20:19), using bad language (Ephesians 4:29), and telling lies (Proverbs 6:16-19). He instructs us to love Him wholeheartedly (Matthew 22:37), to be kind and forgiving to others (Ephesians 4:32), and to love our neighbor as ourselves (Matthew 22:38). Following God's instructions will also display our love for Him (John 14:23). Most importantly, God promises to help you follow Him. God's Holy Spirit lives in you and can help you each day (John 14:16, Ezekiel 36:26-27, Philippians 2:13).", "Q": "How do we handle seemingly impossible situations like Moses at the Red Sea?", "A": "Trust God even when things seem impossible. The Israelites were in what seemed to be an impossible situation. They were caught between the Red Sea and the Egyptian soldiers! However, God is the God of the impossible. He rescues His people (Exodus 15:2). He also wants you to have faith instead of fear. Trust God to help you in every situation, no matter how difficult or impossible things look.", "Q": "Who do you think was the fourth person in the fiery furnace?", "A": "While some think he was an angel, many Bible teachers believe that the fourth person in the fiery furnace was the Son of God -- Jesus before he came to earth as a man (Daniel 3:25-26). Bible teachers say that the pre-incarnate Son of God is mentioned more than 150 times in the Old Testament. The Son of God is so clearly identified throughout the Old Testament that apostle Paul even used it to teach about Jesus: \"So a time was set, and on that day a large number of people came to Paul's lodging. He explained and testified about the Kingdom of God and tried to persuade them about Jesus from the Scriptures. Using the Law of Moses and the books of the prophets, he spoke to them from morning until evening\" (Acts 28:23). Theologians call this a \"theophany,\" or an appearance of God. Theophany is Greek, meaning \"God\" (theo) and \"to reveal oneself\" (phaneia). God is always revealing Himself. He's also revealing Himself to you today.", "Q": "How did the Hebrew men trust in God, even when faced with great danger?", "A": "The Hebrew men told the king that they believed God would save them from the fiery furnace. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego went on to say, \"But even if he doesn't ... we will never serve your gods or worship the gold statue you have set up\" (Daniel 3:18). This is a wonderful example of faith for believers of all ages to follow. We can put our trust in Him by holding onto His promises. The Bible gives us many promises to hold onto when life gets hard and when we face danger. Isaiah 43:2 sounds like it was written for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: \"When you go through deep waters, I will be with you. When you go through rivers of difficulty, you will not drown. When you walk through the fire of oppression, you will not be burned up; the flames will not consume you.\" Psalm 91 is a wonderful chapter in the Bible, filled with many promises from God for our protection. Verse seven says, \"Though a thousand fall at your side, though ten thousand are dying around you, these evils will not touch you.\" We can trust that God is with us, and He is for us! \"So be strong and courageous! Do not be afraid and do not panic before them. For the LORD your God will personally go ahead of you. He will neither fail you nor abandon you\" (Deuteronomy 31:6).", "Q": "When people around us, like those in Nebuchadnezzar's palace, disobey God, how should we react?", "A": "The Bible tells us to put God first in our lives and to obey His loving commandments. In Deuteronomy 6:5-7, Moses writes, \"You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.\" The three Hebrew men did not want to disobey the Law of Moses and commit idolatry. People all around them violated these laws and bowed before the golden image, but the three Hebrew men refused to bow down. God blessed their obedience. God will also bless your obedience (Isaiah 43:2).", "Q": "Where else in the book of Daniel do we see God's servant obeying Him in the face of great danger?", "A": "In the story of Daniel and the lions' den (Daniel 6), we see that Daniel is an official in the Persian Empire under King Darius. The other officials did not like Daniel. These other officials urged King Darius to make a decree. They stated that no one could offer prayer to any god or man except King Darius for a period of thirty days. Daniel continued to pray to Yahweh, knowing that praying could have him killed. For this action, his friend King Darius had Daniel arrested and thrown into a den of lions. God miraculously shut the mouths of the lions, and Daniel was saved. Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, and Daniel all chose to obey God in the face of great danger. Jesus said to his disciples, \"If any of you want to be my follower, you must turn from your selfish ways, take up your cross, and follow me\" (Matthew 16:24). If we will serve and obey God, no matter what the cost, the Lord will bless us abundantly and show His love through us.", "Q": "What can we learn from these Hebrew men and their obedience to God?", "A": "God will pour out his blessing on those who are obedient to Him. The Bible says, \"People who despise advice are asking for trouble; those who respect a command will succeed\" (Proverbs 13:13). The three Hebrew men -- Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego -- were obedient to God's commandments, even when they faced criticism and certain death. As a result of their obedience, the Bible tells us that Nebuchadnezzar ultimately praises the \"Most High God.\" And then, \"the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to even higher positions in the province of Babylon\" (Daniel 3:28-30). God will give you great wisdom and blessing if you will obey Him and follow Him with all your strength.", "Q": "How can we, like John, encourage others with God's message?", "A": "God encouraged John by revealing to him, in visions, what he should share with others: the message that Jesus Christ frees us from sin (Revelation 1:5), that He is alive forever and ever, and that He is in control of the past, present, and future (Revelation 1:17-18). It is an encouraging message. John wrote down everything he heard and saw in the Book of Revelation so that Christians would be encouraged, especially in times of persecution. We can also encourage others with the message that God forgives, saves, and offers eternal life to sinners who come to Him (Romans 10:9-11). We also remind others that God knows everything and is all-powerful.", "Q": "What does John's vision tell us about worship?", "A": "\"For God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life\" (John 3:16). Jesus, the Son of God, became the sacrificial Lamb of God who died on the cross so that we can be forgiven. In John's vision, the 24 elders (which possibly represent the 12 tribes of Israel and the 12 apostles) fell down and worshiped the Lamb (Revelation 5:14). The Lamb is worthy of all praise, honor, and glory. We, too, must worship Him in all we think, say, and do (Romans 12:1).", "Q": "Whose side should we take during the final battle?", "A": "From the time of Adam and Eve, humans have been given the choice to obey or disobey God. Moses gave the Israelites the choice between life and death, between blessings and curses. They chose life by loving the Lord their God, obeying Him and committing themselves firmly to Him (Deuteronomy 30:19-20). Joshua challenged the Israelites to choose between serving the Lord God or idols (Joshua 24:15). Each of us has this choice to make: to love and serve God and to be on His team, or to be on Satan's team. Choose God and life. With Jesus, you are on the winning side.", "Q": "How can you be sure your name is written in the Book of Life?", "A": "In Revelation 21:27, we read that, \"Nothing evil will be allowed to enter (the New Jerusalem), nor anyone who practices shameful idolatry and dishonesty \" but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.\" How can you be sure that your name is written down in the Book of Life? It's as easy as ABC. You need to: Admit you are a sinner and deserve to be punished (Romans 3:23, 6:23). Believe Jesus died and rose again to be your Savior (Romans 5:8). Confess your sin and commit your life to God (1 John 1:9, Romans 10:9). \"But to all who believed him Jesus and accepted him, he gave the right to become children of God\" (John 1:12). Through God's amazing love and forgiveness, you can be assured of being able to enter heaven: the New Jerusalem!", "Q": "With John's vision in mind, how should we live life each day?", "A": "If we keep in mind the fact that Jesus will come again suddenly and at any time (Revelation 22:7), it should change the way we think, speak, and behave. What if Jesus came and you were busy doing something that would hurt Him? What if you had put off doing something you should have done? Live each day in such a way that you will be ready for His return and won't be ashamed of your thoughts, attitudes, speech, or behavior at the time of Jesus' return. The Bible is filled with God's instructions for living, and God has given us the Holy Spirit to help us live godly lives while we wait for Jesus to come again.", "Q": "Joshua's men took over Rahab's town, but she was kind to them. Should we love our enemies?", "A": "We should love everyone, even our enemies. First, the Apostle John made it clear that we should love our brothers and sisters in Christ. He writes, \"And he has given us this command: Those who love God must also love their Christian brothers and sisters\" (1 John 4:21). Beyond loving our Christian brothers and sisters, we are supposed to love our enemies. It is hard to love someone who isn't nice to us, but that is what God wants us to do. Jesus said: \"You have heard that it was said, 'Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.' But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, that you may be children of your Father in heaven. He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous\" (Matthew 5:43-45). It is easier to love those who love us back. But Jesus said if we don't love our enemies, we are no different than those who don't follow Him (Matthew 5:46-47). As you reach out to those who are not nice to you by being nice to them, you might be surprised to see what happens. When you treat someone nice, they just might end up being nice to you, too!", "Q": "The spies were enemies with Rahab. How do you find common ground with enemies?", "A": "If you are having difficulty with someone, talk with them about the things they like to do. It could be sports, music, movies, hiking, fishing, or reading -- anything. When you find something that you both like to do, start talking about that. Jesus taught us that, next to loving the Lord, the second greatest commandment was to love our neighbor as we love ourselves (Matthew 22:37-39). This echoes the Old Testament commandment: \"Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against a fellow Israelite, but love your neighbor as yourself\" (Leviticus 19:18). The Apostle Paul said, \"For the whole law can be summed up in this one command: 'Love your neighbor as yourself'\" (Galatians 5:14). So when someone isn't nice to you, try repaying him or her with kindness. One of the best ways to be a friend is to look for things you have in common with another person. Someone once said, \"The only way to have a friend is to be one.\" You might find that in time they will become kind to you as well.", "Q": "Joshua heard God's voice. How can you hear God's voice and do what He wants you to do in life?", "A": "God wants us to be fulfilled, blessed, and successful in what He has planned for our lives. He also wants us to be a reflection of His love and a blessing in the Earth. In Jeremiah 29:11, the Lord makes clear His intentions for you and me: \"'For I know the plans I have for you,' says the Lord. 'They are plans for good and not for disaster, to give you a future and a hope.'\" We read in Genesis 3:8: \"When the cool evening breezes were blowing, the man and his wife heard the Lord God walking about in the garden. So they hid from the Lord God among the trees.\" This is how God wants to relate to us today, as well. It is God's desire to walk with and to communicate with His children. He wants to talk to us. And He wants us to listen and talk to Him. There is more good news: we can hear His voice. The Bible makes it clear that we were created to have two-way communication with Him. Jesus tells us in John 10:27, \"My sheep listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me.\" The prophet Isaiah says, \"Your own ears will hear him. Right behind you a voice will say, 'This is the way you should go,' whether to the right or to the left\" (Isaiah 30:21). You can hear God's voice by reading the Bible, through listening to your parents, and by going to church, and listening to your pastor or Sunday School teacher. As you get older, you will learn how to know God's voice from the other voices you may hear. God's voice can come with peace you will feel in your heart. In the Old Testament, a boy named Samuel thought that Eli was speaking to him when it really was God (1 Samuel 3:7-8). He had to learn to identify God's voice. But after some practice, he became one of the greatest prophets in the whole Bible. As you practice hearing God's voice, you will find that you too can identify it so that you can do all God calls for you to do.", "Q": "Joshua followed God's orders and was mocked. How do we respond to those who mock God?", "A": "Don't be ashamed. The Apostle Paul said, \"For I am not ashamed of this Good News about Christ. It is the power of God at work, saving everyone who believes...\" (Romans 1:16a). God has done so much for us, but sometimes it is hard for someone who does not believe in Him to appreciate and respect that. But God wants us to be a reflection of His love to that person. That is why He wants us to obey His commandments -- especially to \"love your neighbor\" (Matthew 19:19). By obeying God and doing the right thing -- even if sometimes it doesn't seem like the cool thing to do -- you are actually loving your neighbor. They may have never read the Bible or learned what God's plan is for their life. By doing what God says to do, you become like a living page of the Bible for them. Jesus said, \"No one lights a lamp and then puts it under a basket. Instead, a lamp is placed on a stand, where it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, let your good deeds shine out for all to see, so that everyone will praise your heavenly Father\" (Matthew 5:15-16). Shine the light that Jesus has placed in you! Because, when you do, other people will see Jesus -- maybe for the first time.", "Q": "Joshua and his men knew they were obeying God. How do you know if you are obeying God or not?", "A": "God's instructions are in Scripture (Joshua 1:7-8). The Apostle Paul writes to his young friend Timothy, \"All Scripture is inspired by God and is useful to teach us what is true and to make us realize what is wrong in our lives. It corrects us when we are wrong and teaches us to do what is right. God uses it to prepare and equip his people to do every good work\" (2 Timothy 3:16-17). There is no way for any human being to know what is right and what is wrong unless God reveals it to them. That is why God has given the Bible to us as a guide for living. God's will is expressly revealed in His Word. Hundreds of thousands of people have suffered, sacrificed, been imprisoned, and even died to make sure that you and I received a copy of the Holy Bible. It is foolish to neglect the Scriptures when such a high price has been paid to ensure that we have access to them. Serious study of the Bible will teach us what God expects from us and desires for us in our daily lives. The first thing said about the believers on the day of Pentecost was that, \"They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching\" (Acts 2:42). They were following the principle of Psalm 1 that states, \"Oh, the joys of those who do not follow the advice of the wicked, or stand around with sinners, or join in with mockers. But they delight in the law of the Lord, meditating on it day and night. They are like trees planted along the riverbank, bearing fruit each season. Their leaves never wither, and they prosper in all they do\" (Psalms 1:1-3). When we find and obey God's truth in the Bible, we will have success in life.", "Q": "For Esther, what did it mean to be brave?", "A": "To be brave is to be ready to face and endure danger or pain or to endure unpleasant conditions or behavior without showing fear. This is especially true when you are being brave to protect someone other than yourself. Both Mordecai and Esther had to be brave in the face of Haman's threats. They both knew they could lose their lives. But they did the right thing and all the Jews throughout the kingdom were saved because of their bravery (Esther 4:16).", "Q": "In the story of Esther, Haman was idolized. What is an idol?", "A": "Anything that becomes more important to us than our relationship with God is called an \"idol.\" This is not just a statue made of stone, wood, or metal like the idols of the Old Testament. Anything that takes first place in our life is a spiritual idol. Jesus said that the greatest commandment is, \"You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind\" (Matthew 22:37). The Ten Commandments teach a similar truth: \"You must not have any other god but me. You must not make for yourself an idol of any kind or an image of anything in the heavens or on the earth or in the sea. You must not bow down to them or worship them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God who will not tolerate your affection for any other gods\" (Exodus 20:3-5). Because Mordecai loved God, he refused to bow down to Haman, even if it meant losing his life. There are times when we have to be brave, like Mordecai was, in order to do the right thing in life.", "Q": "Why did Esther do the right thing?", "A": "God wants His children to always do the right thing. Esther had to do the right thing and speak up for Israel even when the leaders, like Haman, were doing the wrong thing. The Bible says, \"Remember, it is sin to know what you ought to do and then not do it\" (James 4:17). The good news is that when we ask God for help, He sends the Holy Spirit to give us courage so that we can be brave. It might be hard to do what is right, but it is always the best thing to do -- and many times, it is easier in the long run.", "Q": "In Esther's story, where do we see reaping and sowing?", "A": "Both Mordecai and Haman represent examples of reaping and sowing. Haman tricked the king in an attempt to kill all of the Jews. Ultimately, Haman was executed for his trickery. On the other hand, Mordecai honored the one true God. As a result, Esther appointed Mordecai to be in charge of Haman's property (Esther 8:1-2). The king also took off his signet ring which he had taken back from Haman and gave it to Mordecai. When a farmer plants a seed in the ground, he \"sows\" that seed. He knows that if he plants the seed in good ground and if it gets plenty of water and sunlight, it will sprout and grow into a healthy plant. In the same way, if we \"sow\" a seed with our words, either good or bad, we will reap the fruit of that seed. So if we sow kindness and love, we will reap love from others. If we sow anger, we will reap mean behavior from others. The Bible makes it clear: \"Don't be misled--you cannot mock the justice of God. You will always harvest what you plant\" (Galatians 6:7). But if we do what God wants us to do, sowing good seeds to others, then we will be blessed with good things: \"So let's not get tired of doing what is good. At just the right time we will reap a harvest of blessing if we don't give up\" (Galatians 6:9).", "Q": "Does God hear our prayers?", "A": "God hears us and will always rescue those who love Him, just as He rescued Mordecai and the Jews in the story of Esther (Esther 8:15-16). Sometimes it feels like God is not moving as fast as we would like in answering our prayers. But we need to remember that, if we believe that God hears our prayers, then He will move on our behalf when the time is right. The Bible tells us that there is great power in our prayers: \"The earnest prayer of a righteous person has great power and produces wonderful results\" (James 5:16). It also says: \"We know that God does not listen to sinners. He listens to the godly person who does his will\" (John 9:31). Jesus taught us: \"If two of you agree here on earth concerning anything you ask, my Father in heaven will do it for you\" (Matthew 18:19). So don't give up when it seems like the answer isn't coming. It will come in God's timing, and His timing is always perfect.", "Q": "Why does God tell us not to complain?", "A": "Complaining is an outward sign that you have not placed your trust in God. He wants to bless you, but He can only pour out His blessings if we are walking in faith. If we complain because we are lacking in faith, then it blocks God from bringing His blessing to you. We see a clear example of this when the Children of Israel are in the wilderness after God dramatically delivered them from Egypt. Because they complained about their circumstances as they made their way toward the Promised Land, God declared, \"You will all drop dead in this wilderness! Because you complained against me, every one of you who is twenty years old or older and was included in the registration will die\" (Numbers 14:29). The Apostle Paul said, \"Do everything without complaining and arguing\" (Philippians 2:14). Later in the book of Philippians, he gives the antidote to complaining: \"Always be full of joy in the Lord. I say it again--rejoice!\" (Philippians 4:4).", "Q": "Why do people say that God's grace to Paul is \"amazing\"?", "A": "Grace is receiving something you don't deserve. That is different from the concept of mercy. Mercy is not receiving punishment for something that you do deserve. In the English New Testament, the word \"grace\" is always a translation of \"charis,\" a word that occurs in the Greek text more than 170 times. The apostle Peter writes, \"May God give you more and more grace and peace as you grow in your knowledge of God and Jesus our Lord\" (2 Peter 1:2). Grace is a gift of God. It is God intervening in our lives to bring about His will despite the circumstances that we may face. There may be times where we make mistakes. It seems like we dig ourselves into a hole that we can't get out of. God's grace is there to pull us up out of that hole without us doing anything to escape. If you find yourself in a position where it seems that there is no answer or there is no way out, ask God to bring His grace into that situation. Then continue to thank Him for working in your life. The blessing of God comes to us despite our weakness, our failures, and our sin. That is why the great hymn writer, John Newton, who himself had been captain of a slave ship, was able to receive God's forgiveness and write these words in his timeless hymn: \"Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see.\"", "Q": "God spoke to Paul. What are some ways God speaks to His people?", "A": "Jesus said, \"My sheep listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me\" (John 10:27). In the book of Romans, the apostle Paul says, \"For all who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God\" (Romans 8:14). The Bible says, \"Your own ears will hear him. Right behind you a voice will say, 'This is the way you should go,' whether to the right or to the left\" (Isaiah 30:21). There are basically seven ways that God speaks to His people today. The first and most important way is through the Scriptures. The Bible is the standard that we use to judge every other form of what we believe to be God's guidance. The second way God communicates is by His Spirit speaking directly to our spirit. This can be through the still small voice that we hear in our heart, through a dream, or through a vision. Because this revelation is supernatural, it's important to confirm that what you believe you are hearing is truly from God. This leads us to the next way God directs, and that is through confirmation. The Bible says, \"The facts of every case must be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses\" (2 Corinthians 13:1b). God will speak to us, and then He gives us the other six keys to hearing His voice in order to confirm that what he has said is truly from Him. The next key is godly counsel. The Bible says, \"There is safety in having many advisers\" (Proverbs 11:14b). God is not offended if we seek confirmation through our pastor, our parents, our teachers, or through mature godly friends. In fact, He is blessed when we seek to confirm his guidance in our lives. Another important key to hearing God's voice is through the peace of God. The Bible says, \"You shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace\" (Isaiah 55:12a). It also says, \"Let the peace that comes from Christ rule in your hearts\" (Colossians 3:15a). The word \"rule\" here in the Greek is the same word for an umpire. So the peace of God is like an umpire that tells us whether we are \"safe\" in His will or \"out\" of His will. The next key to hearing God's voice is personal prophecy. God will use New Testament prophets to speak His will to us \" and also to confirm His will in our lives. Scripture says in the book of Amos, \"Indeed, the Sovereign LORD never does anything until he reveals his plans to his servants the prophets\" (Amos 3:7). The apostle Paul tells us that we should be eager to prophesy because God builds up His church through this special gift of the Holy Spirit (1 Corinthians 14:39). But remember, New Testament prophecy is meant for edification, exhortation, and comfort (1 Corinthians 14:3). It is never meant for judgment. The final way that God will speak to us is through circumstances. Some people rely too much on circumstances, neglecting the other six keys of God's guidance. Other people don't pay enough attention to the circumstances and sometimes step out ahead of God's timing, even though they may have actually heard God's voice in a certain direction. So we need to weigh the circumstances along with the other six keys of God's guidance. The wonderful thing to know is that because God loves you He is communicating \" and you can hear His voice and know His will today.", "Q": "Like Paul, does God bless those around our faith?", "A": "Yes. In 2 Corinthians, chapter 5, the apostle Paul uses two metaphors to describe the ministry of Christians in the world. Paul calls us God's ambassadors in the earth (2 Corinthians 5:20). An ambassador is sent by a king or president to a foreign land to represent and declare the will of that ruler. Paul also describes the believer as a minister of reconciliation (2 Corinthians 5:18): \"For God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, no longer counting people's sins against them. And he gave us this wonderful message of reconciliation\" (2 Corinthians 5:19). Every Christian is called to be a minister. Each of us has a special assignment that God wants us to carry out in this life. So you can be a blessing to those around you, in your family, with your friends, and on your job by doing those things that God has created for you to do. You can also be a blessing to those around you by walking in obedience to God and receiving the blessings that come as a result of that obedience. Finally, you can be a blessing by demonstrating the love and grace of God in your daily life. People who don't know God will see His love through your demonstrations of love.>", "Q": "With faith like Paul, can we reflect the power of Christ?", "A": "Absolutely! In John 14:12, Jesus promised his disciples, \"I tell you the truth, anyone who believes in me will do the same works I have done, and even greater works, because I am going to be with the Father.\" Jesus was explaining that, when He ascended to heaven, He would send the Holy Spirit, who would be our helper and our comforter: \"But when the Father sends the Advocate as my representative--that is, the Holy Spirit--he will teach you everything and will remind you of everything I have told you\" (John 14:26). Jesus told his disciples, \"And now I will send the Holy Spirit, just as my Father promised. But stay here in the city until the Holy Spirit comes and fills you with power from heaven\" (Luke 24:49). Then just before He ascended into heaven, He told His followers: \"But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere--in Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth\" (Acts 1:8). It wasn't until Jesus was baptized in water and the Holy Spirit descended upon Him that Jesus began doing miracles while He was on earth. In the same way, God wants to use every believer to show His power and glory on the earth. In order to move in the power of God, we must not only receive the Holy Spirit in our hearts at salvation, but we also must receive the fullness of the Holy Spirit in a baptism of power \" just like Jesus did at His water baptism. When we yield to God in this manner, He fills us to overflowing with his Holy Spirit, which gives us power to be His witnesses. The word Christian literally means \"Christ-ones.\" God has called each one of us to be like Jesus. We are not Christ, but through the power of the Holy Spirit, we can do the things that Jesus did, as His Holy Spirit directs us. A good way to understand it is to think how the sun is different from the moon. God is like the sun in that He sends forth His light and power into the universe. We are like the moon in that we are an inanimate object that can't give anything of value by ourselves. However, when we receive the light and power from the sun, we can reflect that light into the darkness of this world. Then, people will see the light of Jesus as they look at us. As someone once said, \"We are happy to be the moon!\"", "Q": "How does God protect His people?", "A": "When His people cry out, God protects them. There are several passages that can attest to this: \"Then call on me when you are in trouble, and I will rescue you, and you will give me glory\" (Psalms 50:15), and, \"But in my distress I cried out to the LORD; yes, I prayed to my God for help. He heard me from his sanctuary; my cry to him reached his ears\" (Psalms 18:6). The following passages also speak to God's desire to protect His people: \"The LORD keeps you from all harm and watches over your life\" (Psalms 121:7). The famous Psalm 91 speaks of God's protection for those who love Him. In verse 10, He promises, \"No evil will conquer you; no plague will come near your home.\" If you find yourself in trouble, call out to Jesus for protection. Ask Him to dispatch His angels to surround you. God is your loving Father who wants to save you from harm.", "Q": "How do you know right from wrong?", "A": "We know what is right and wrong based on what the Bible teaches. The Bible is God's revealed will. It is our guide in life. The principles of Scripture help us to know what is right and wrong in life (Psalm 119:105). Many of the laws we have are based on biblical principles, specifically the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20:1). If you find yourself in a situation that seems to be going against the truth of the Bible, first ask the Holy Spirit to give you wisdom. If you can, talk to your parents, your teachers, or your pastor to ask their advice. If you need to make a stand for what is right, ask the Lord to give you courage and to protect you in the midst of your trial. Ask God to give you the words to say to bring peace and justice to the situation.", "Q": "Can you hear God's voice like Noah did?", "A": "Throughout the Bible, we see time and time again where God's people heard His voice. Jesus promised us that, if we are His children, we can hear His voice: \"My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me\" (John 10:27). The Lord spoke through the Prophet Isaiah, \"Your own ears will hear him. Right behind you a voice will say, 'This is the way you should go,' whether to the right or to the left\" (Isaiah 30:21). God is speaking to us all the time! But just like the boy Samuel in the Old Testament who mistook God's voice for Eli's, each of us needs to learn how to recognize the voice of our Heavenly Father. We do this by trial and error, testing something that we believe to be God's voice and seeing how it turns out. As we continue in faith, eventually we learn what our Heavenly Father's voice sounds like, and then we can obey the things He tells us to do.", "Q": "What does it mean to be faithful like Noah?", "A": "Jesus teaches us, \"If you are faithful in little things, you will be faithful in large ones\" (Luke 16:10). He also said, \"You are truly my disciples if you remain faithful to my teachings\" (John 8:31). God is looking for servants who will carry out His will on the Earth. Jesus called those who are obedient to His teachings \"disciples\" -- which means 'a disciplined follower.' God wants to show the people of this world how much He loves them. Often He displays this love through people who are willing to listen for His voice and then obey His commandments. The more you are faithful to do all that God asks of you, the more He will entrust to you and the more people will see Him through you!", "Q": "What are the parallels between John 3:16 and Noah's story?", "A": "A very familiar passage of Scripture is John 3:16: \"For God loved the world so much that He gave His one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.\" When Jesus died on the cross, He took on Himself the sins of all the world. God doesn't want anyone to die without knowing Him. Jesus is like the ark that God provided to Noah to save his family. Just as Noah believed God's warning and built the ark, so God wants us to believe His message of salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. To receive salvation, simply pray and say you believe Jesus is God and you want Him to be your Savior. Tell God that you are sorry for your sins and that you want to live for Him -- and then you will be saved!", "Q": "What if, like John, you don't understand God's advice?", "A": "The Bible says, \"Children, obey your parents because you belong to the Lord, for this is the right thing to do\" (Ephesians 6:1). It also says, \"Plans go wrong for lack of advice; many advisers bring success\" (Proverbs 15:22). Any time you need to make a big decision in life, it is important to talk to your parents and some wise Christian leaders like your youth pastor or Sunday School teacher. They will often help you to understand why God is leading you in a particular direction.", "Q": "What can we learn from John about knowing the truth?", "A": "Jesus said, \"I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one can come to the Father except through me\" (John 14:6). And Jesus said He would send the Holy Spirit to guide us into all truth (John 16:13). We find the truth in the Bible, which is God's Word. The Holy Spirit helps us to understand the truth, and He gives us the power to live truthfully.", "Q": "What can we learn from John about pride and humility?", "A": "The Bible teaches us, \"Don't think you are better than you really are\" (Romans 12:3). Jesus said, \"those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted\" (Luke 14:11). The Scripture says, \"Pride goes before destruction, and haughtiness before a fall\" (Proverbs 16:18). It also says, \"Humble yourselves under the mighty power of God, and at the right time he will lift you up in honor\" (1 Peter 5:6), and, \"Pride leads to disgrace, but with humility comes wisdom\" (Proverbs 11:2).", "Q": "What are the two greatest commandments?", "A": "Jesus taught that the greatest commandment is, \"'You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind.' This is the first and greatest commandment. A second is equally important: 'Love your neighbor as yourself'\" (Matthew 22:37-39). Someone once said that, by following these commandments, we will have true J.O.Y. in our lives, which is an acronym for Jesus, Others, then Yourself.", "Q": "How does someone receive the power of the Holy Spirit?", "A": "Ask Jesus to forgive you of your sins and be your Lord and Savior. Then, invite the Holy Spirit to come and fill you with God's love and power.", "Q": "How can we respond to our own \"Job\" moments?", "A": "God loves you and is sad when you are sad. We live in a sinful world where bad things sometimes happen, even if we don't do anything wrong. Jesus said, \"I am with you always\" (Matthew 28:20). The Bible says that God will never fail you or abandon you (Deuteronomy 31:6). When bad things happen, turn to Jesus and ask Him to be with you, to give you strength, and to comfort you. Take time to praise the Lord and pray every day. King David writes, \"Praise God our savior! For each day he carries us in his arms\" (Psalms 68:19). Throughout the Bible, we see where the people of God praised Him and He delivered them. As we pray and praise God, He will fight on our behalf, as well.", "Q": "What other godly Bible characters suffered like Job?", "A": "Jesus was without sin, yet he was tempted by the devil and died on the cross for our sins. Joseph was sent into slavery, then to prison, even though he didn't do anything to deserve it. Daniel was thrown into the lions' den just for praying to God. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were thrown in the fiery furnace because they refused to bow to the golden statue. Stephen was stoned for being a witness for Jesus.", "Q": "What do you do if you're falsely accused like Job?", "A": "Job's wife and his friends thought that Job did something wrong and was being punished by God. Job would not repent for something he didn't do. Instead, he took his case to God and asked God to defend him. We should tell the truth to those who accuse us, and forgive and love them, even if they don't believe us at first. Many times God will show the truth to those around us. We must let Him be our defender.", "Q": "How do we keep praising God when things are hard?", "A": "The Apostle Paul wrote in Philippians 4:4, \"Rejoice in the Lord always\" That means that even when we don't feel like praising God, we need to do so as an act of our faith. To drive home this point, Paul repeats himself in the second half of the verse, \"I will say it again, rejoice.\" The Bible says that we can tell ourselves to praise God, even if we don't feel like doing it. King David declared in Psalm 103:1, \"Bless the Lord, oh my soul; and all that is within me bless His holy name.\" God will do powerful things in our lives if we praise Him. When bad things happen and you don't feel like praising Him, ask the Holy Spirit to give you grace and help to praise Him in the midst of the trial. You will see God move on your behalf as you give Him praise in all things, and even for all things.", "Q": "What does the Bible say about hope and restoration?", "A": "Job is a wonderful example of God's restoration power in the life of someone who trusts in Him. In Joel 2:25, the Lord says, \"I will give you back what you lost to the swarming locusts\" The Apostle Paul writes, \"We know that God causes everything to work together for the good of those who love God and are called according to his purpose for them\" (Romans 8:28). If we praise God and keep our hearts pure, in His time, He will restore all things.", "Q": "What should you do if, like Peter, you betray a friend?", "A": "God gives us friends both for fun and for encouragement. Sometimes friends are even placed in our lives to help us see where we may be making mistakes. The Bible says, \"A friend loves at all times, and is born, as is a brother, for adversity\" (Proverbs 17:17). God gives us friends to help us in life -- and for us to help them. If you have betrayed a friend, it is important for you to go to them and ask for forgiveness. True friends are hard to find, so if you have a good friendship, it is important to protect it and nurture it.", "Q": "How should you respond to the Holy Spirit's warning?", "A": "In the Old Testament, we see how the boy Samuel was awakened by a voice that he thought was his master, Eli. But after this happening three times, Eli realized that God was speaking to Samuel. The boy Samuel had to learn how to recognize the voice of God -- but when he did, he became one of the most powerful prophets in the Bible. The good news is that because the Holy Spirit dwells within us, we can also hear God's voice. It takes practice to be able to recognize God's voice from our own thoughts, but eventually, we can know when He is speaking to us. When we hear Him, it is important that we obey what He is telling us to do. Your parents and pastor can help you to learn how to confirm God's guidance in your life. When you learn to hear God, your whole life becomes new -- and it is an exciting adventure with the Holy Spirit!", "Q": "How do we avoid negative peer pressure?", "A": "The Apostle Paul declared, \"Don't be fooled by those who say such things, for 'bad company corrupts good character'\" (1 Corinthians 15:33). We become like the people who are our friends. A wise pastor often said, \"Show me your friends, and I will know your character.\" In order to avoid negative peer pressure, we need to seek friends who love God and honor His Word.", "Q": "When does God forget our sins?", "A": "God forgives our sin when we ask Jesus to be our Savior. This is the beginning of our walk with God. Then as we grow in faith, it is important to confess our sins after that to avoid allowing anything to come between God and us. The wonderful news is that God is full of mercy and kindness toward us \" even when we make a mistake and fall into a sin. The Apostle John writes, \"But if we confess our sins to him, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all wickedness\" (1 John 1:9). When we repent or say we are sorry for our sin, God forgives us immediately for that sin \" and even for sins we may have forgotten about. That's how loving our Heavenly Father is to us. When we repent for our sin, it is like a child confessing to an earthly father. When a child makes a mistake, he or she is not kicked out of the family. A loving earthly father is saddened by the disobedience or rebellion of a child because he knows that those bad decisions will bring pain and trouble into their life. That loving parent provides rules and instruction to their child \" and punishment for disobeying those rules \" to help that child become wise and to protect them from danger. It is the same with our Heavenly Father. He wants to bless us and give us a good life. When we sin and disobey Him, He is sad because He knows that sin can bring pain and difficulty into our life. He is also sad because sin distances us from Him \" and He loves to have fellowship with us through prayer, praise, and worship. But when we confess our sin and say we are sorry to God, He forgives us immediately. Our Heavenly Father promises that, \"I will forgive their wickedness, and I will never again remember their sins\" (Hebrews 8:12).", "Q": "Why does God restore Peter?", "A": "We are God's masterpiece. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we can do the good things he planned for us long ago (Ephesians 2:10). When Jesus restored Peter, He clearly linked the relationship with Peter's calling or task: \"Simon son of John, do you love me? ... Then take care of my sheep\" (John 21:16). The question to Simon Peter concerned relationship \" then the command to care for the sheep concerned task. When we disobey and fall into sin, God wants to restore us both to heal the relationship and also to keep us on target to complete our calling. And the wonderful news is that He is quick to forgive and restore when we repent. Scripture tells us, \"If we confess our sins to him, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all wickedness\" (1 John 1:9). Our Heavenly Father promises, \"I will forgive their wickedness, and I will never again remember their sins\" (Hebrews 8:12). He does this because He loves you \" and through you, He can share His love with other people who don't yet know Him.", "Q": "What is the right way to respond when God asks you to do something for Him?", "A": "Jesus is our model for how to respond to God's direction for our lives. He told His disciples, \"I tell you the truth, the Son can do nothing by himself. He does only what he sees the Father doing. Whatever the Father does, the Son also does\" (John 5:19). When faced with death on the cross and separation from His Father for the first and only time, Jesus willingly obeyed His Father's will. In the Garden of Gethsemane, he declared, \"Father, if you are willing, please take this cup of suffering away from me. Yet I want your will to be done, not mine\" (Luke 22:42). It is okay to ask God to confirm His will for our lives. But once we are sure of God's direction, we need to follow the leading of Jesus in obedience, declaring, \"Not my will, but Yours be done.\"", "Q": "How can we learn to see what God sees in us?", "A": "The Bible says, \"For in him we live and move and exist\" (Acts 17:28). We can't do anything of eternal value without God's help. Jesus calls Himself the Vine, and we are the branches. He makes is clear that, \"...apart from me you can do nothing\" (John 15:5). So we need to see ourselves as strong \"in Him.\" In the first chapter of Ephesians, the Apostle Paul uses the term \"in Him\" numerous times to describe how God sees us. We need to see ourselves as being \"in Him,\" knowing that \"apart from him we can do nothing.\"", "Q": "Does God use people who seem weak?", "A": "Yes! The Apostle Paul writes, \"God chose things the world considers foolish in order to shame those who think they are wise. And he chose things that are powerless to shame those who are powerful\" (1 Corinthians 1:27). God is Almighty, so He doesn't need any person to help Him do what He wants to do in the earth. Instead, in His wisdom, He chooses to use men and women because He loves us. The Apostle James declares, \"Hasn't God chosen the poor in this world to be rich in faith? Aren't they the ones who will inherit the Kingdom he promised to those who love him?\" (James 2:5). God will often work through people, groups, and nations that appear weak so that when He accomplishes His plan, no one can take credit for it. It could have only been done because of God.", "Q": "What does God's confirmation look like?", "A": "God can confirm His plan for our lives in many ways. The most important way that He confirms His guidance is through the Bible (2 Timothy 3:16, 2 Peter 1:20), which is the final authority in our lives. He also confirms His will by His Spirit speaking directly to your spirit (Romans 8:14, John 10:27), through godly counselors (Proverbs 11:14, Proverbs 15:22), through confirmation (Matthew 18:16, Deuteronomy 19:15), through the peace of God (Colossians 3:15, Isaiah 55:12), through prophets in the Church (Amos 3:7, 1 Corinthians 14:3-5), and through God bringing the circumstances into order in His timing. The wonderful thing is that our Heavenly Father loves us and wants to give us direction in our lives (Proverbs 3:5-10, Psalm 37:23-24).", "Q": "Why is there so much power in unity?", "A": "We are made in the image and likeness of God -- and there is perfect unity in Him: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We see this unity when God created the earth, declaring, \"Let US make mankind in OUR image, in OUR likeness\" (Genesis 1:26). Because we are made in God's image, He commands His blessing over us when we walk in unity with other believers (Psalm 133:1-3). The Bible tells us that there is power when we pray together in unity (Matthew 18:19, Acts 2:1). There is spiritual strength in unity: \"A person standing alone can be attacked and defeated, but two can stand back-to-back and conquer. Three are even better, for a triple-braided cord is not easily broken\" (Ecclesiastes 4:12). Walking in unity brings joy to God, and it brings His blessing (Philippians 2:2, Romans 15:6).", "Q": "Is being kind and loyal as important today as it was in the story of Ruth?", "A": "What does it mean to be loyal? It means to be a faithful supporter to someone or something. A loyal person is reliable and can be counted on. The Bible tells us that God is loyal and kind to us. He will not abandon us. He is our strongest supporter! Even if we mess up or fall short, He will not abandon us! Deuteronomy 7:9 says, \"Understand, therefore, that the Lord your God is indeed God. He is the faithful God who keeps his covenant for a thousand generations and lavishes his unfailing love on those who love him and obey his commands.\" He has kept His promises to His people since He created the earth. We can trust His promises and His unfailing love today, tomorrow, and forever! Ruth was an excellent example of being kind and loyal. She stuck with Naomi in good times and bad times. She also remained loyal to God and did not go back to her false gods when given the chance. Ruth 1:16-18 says, \"But Ruth replied, \"Don't ask me to leave you and turn back. Wherever you go, I will go; wherever you live, I will live. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. Wherever you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord punish me severely if I allow anything but death to separate us!\" When Naomi saw that Ruth was determined to go with her, she said nothing more.\" Ruth remained loyal to Ruth by words and actions. She volunteered to work in Boaz's fields to provide food for them. This she did faithfully and remained with Naomi. (Ruth 2:23). Loyalty is more than words; it is validated by actions. Before Jesus was arrested and crucified, Peter and the other disciples vowed they would not deny Jesus, even if it meant dying with Him. The Bible tells us that Peter did deny Jesus three times as Jesus had predicted. The other disciples ran away and were scattered. Peter and the others meant well, but fear kept them from backing up their words. (Matthew 26:31-35; Mark 14:50, 66-72). Loyalty is a valuable and rare trait to have. It is worth pursuing in our relationships with both God and others. \"Many will say they are loyal friends, but who can find one who is truly reliable?\" (Proverbs 20:6). The Bible also tells us in Proverbs 3:3 how important kindness and loyalty are: \"Never let loyalty and kindness leave you! Tie them around your neck as a reminder. Write them deep within your heart.\"", "Q": "Boaz showed love and kindness to Naomi and Ruth. Are we responsible to do the same?", "A": "In the Bible, God places importance on caring for less fortunate people, like foreigners, orphans, poor, and widows. He does not want those who suffer hardship and distress to be neglected (Leviticus 25:24-26, 35-43; James 1:27; Isaiah 1:17; Isaiah. 58:6-7; Deuteronomy 10:18; Psalm 146:9) God can intervene directly to provide for others, however, most often He cares for others through us! We have a responsibility to help those in need and to share the blessings God has given us with others. Proverbs 3:27 tells us, \"Do not withhold good from those who deserve it when it's in your power to help them.\" Ruth was humbled and shocked by the kindness and generosity that Boaz showed her as a foreigner and one who was poor. \"Ruth fell at his feet and thanked him warmly. \"What have I done to deserve such kindness?\" she asked. \"I am only a foreigner.\" (Ruth 2:10). God was clear in Isaiah 58:7 when He talked about those who wanted to appear religious yet did not show God's love to others. \"No, this is the kind of fasting I want: Free those who are wrongly imprisoned; lighten the burden of those who work for you. Let the oppressed go free, and remove the chains that bind people. Share your food with the hungry, and give shelter to the homeless. Give clothes to those who need them, and do not hide from relatives who need your help.\" Boaz looked out for Naomi and Ruth. He showed kindness and respect to his workers. Let us always treat others with respect and show them God's love by caring for them and sharing what we have generously been given.", "Q": "Boaz was the family redeemer of Naomi and Ruth. How does this represent Jesus as our Redeemer?", "A": "Throughout the Old Testament we see patterns and examples that give us a glimpse of the redemptive work of Jesus Christ. In the book of Ruth we see Boaz as an example of the kinsman redeemer, which is what Jesus became for all mankind through His death and resurrection. So, we see Jesus in the compassion and redemptive act of Boaz toward Naomi and Ruth. (Ruth 4:1-10; Titus 2:14). We also see the bloodline through which Jesus would be born. Boaz acted as the kinsman-redeemer to Ruth; they married and had a child named Obed. He became the father to Jesse, and he became the father to King David. Jesus Christ descended from this royal bloodline. As a descendent of Boaz and Ruth, Jesus is the promised son of David who sits forever on the throne of Israel. (Ruth 4:17-22). Yes, Boaz purchased back, or redeemed Naomi's property for her. She was no longer poor and without hope. She was now under the protection and provision of Boaz. This was God's plan to restore the joy to Naomi and Ruth for their faithfulness and trust in Him. God also has a plan of redemption working in our lives -- and through our lives. \"Yet God, in his grace, freely makes us right in his sight. He did this through Christ Jesus when he freed us from the penalty for our sins.\" (Romans 3:24). We were without hope, slaves to sin, unable to pay the price for our sin. God came to our rescue and delivered us from sin and death! Ephesians 1:7 says, \"He is so rich in kindness and grace that he purchased our freedom with the blood of his Son and forgave our sins.\" God sent Jesus to earth to do what we are helpless to do on our own! Let us proclaim without a doubt that Jesus is our Redeemer! He freed us from sin and death to live for Him on this earth, and with Him in heaven forever! \"But as for me, I know that my Redeemer lives, and he will stand upon the earth at last.\" (Job 19:25)", "Q": "Can I return to my old manner of life and be happy?", "A": "In the book of Ruth, Naomi told Orpah and Ruth to return home to their parents. Orpah left, but Ruth refused. Naomi told Ruth to do as Orpah had done, go back to her old life, and to her false gods. \"But Ruth replied, \"Don't ask me to leave you and turn back. Wherever you go, I will go; wherever you live, I will live. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. Wherever you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord punish me severely if I allow anything but death to separate us!\" Ruth would not be moved. In the ten years she was married to Ruth's son, she had experienced the goodness of the one true, living God! She was committed to being a child of God and living among His people! Naomi knew Ruth was in it for life! (Ruth 1:1-18). After Jesus' death, Peter and other disciples went back to the Sea of Galilee. They were heartbroken, confused, and scared. Jesus was gone! They tried to go back to what they knew and did before they met Jesus. Jesus came to them as they fished on the Sea of Galilee. Once Peter realized that it was Jesus on the shore, he immediately jumped into the water and swam to Him. The old life paled in comparison to the new life he had begun with Jesus! He couldn't return to his former life. (John 21). Sometimes our old way of life may look attractive to us again. This is especially true in difficult times like temptations, trials, or peer pressure. Elijah confronted God's people who were trying to worship both God and idols. He told them to quit going back and forth and to choose who they would serve! (1 Kings 18:21). When Joshua led God's people into the Promised Land, he called them to serve God wholeheartedly and to put away their idols. Then he boldly declared that he and his family had committed to serve the Lord! He did not wait for the others to make their decision. This was his choice regardless. (Joshua 2:14-15). This was like Ruth; she was not swayed by Orpah's decision to return to her former life. Paul said this about His pursuit of righteousness in God: \"No, dear brothers and sisters, I have not achieved it, but I focus on this one thing: Forgetting the past and looking forward to what lies ahead.\" (Philippians 3:13). Paul refused to look back! Psalm 34:8 says, \"Taste and see that the Lord is good. Oh, the joys of those who take refuge in him!\" Once we have experienced the goodness, grace, joy, love and mercy of God \" how can we go back and be satisfied?", "Q": "Is God still at work for my good in times of difficulty or tragedy?", "A": "We all have a choice to blame God and become bitter, or to trust God and become better as we allow Him to work His plan. In the story of Ruth, we see how Ruth chose to trust God and not become bitter. She would not return to her false gods when given the easy way out!", "Q": "When we do something wrong, what should we do?", "A": "Confess it. The Bible tells us, \"If we confess our sins to him, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all wickedness\" (1 John 1:9). From the beginning, God wanted a family. He wants to have a relationship with you like a father does with his son. Sometimes we hurt our father. But we want to quickly apologize and make things right. It's the same with our Heavenly Father. The only way we can know what is right or wrong in this world is by what He has revealed to us through his Word. We also are able to know if we have done wrong through the conviction of the Holy Spirit in our hearts. In the book of Jeremiah, God said that he would make a new covenant with us and that he would write his law upon our hearts. When we sin or do something that God doesn't want us to do, we can feel a sense of guilt or sadness because his Holy Spirit is at work in our hearts. So if we do something that is wrong, we need to say we're sorry for that to our Heavenly Father. Then we need to make a decision not to do that thing anymore. If we have trouble committing that sin over and over again, we may need to ask God to give us the grace and the strength to overcome that sin. We may also need to find someone like our parents or a pastor who can help us by being a friend that we can share our challenges with. You should always ask your parents who would be a person that you can trust to share these things. Another way that we can overcome sin is by spending time with on God's word (2 Timothy 2:15). King David said, \"I have hidden your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you\" (Psalm 119:11). The word of God is powerful (Hebrews 4:12) and as we think on it are it starts to impact how we think and what we will desire to do in our lives. This is called renewing our mind according to the word of God (Romans 12:2). God's powerful Word will actually start to change the way we think and change the things that we want to do or don't want to do. Another way to overcome sin is to spend time with God in prayer and in praise and worship. This builds up our relationship with the Lord and our affection for him. Over time, we fall so much in love with God that we don't want to do anything that will hurt Him. God wants you to walk in victory and not face the sin (Romans 6:23). So take the time to read His word, then spend time in prayer and worship with the Lord, and soon you will see that those things that used to cause you to sin become less and less a part of your life. You will gain the victory as you walk with Jesus.", "Q": "Why does God allow us to make mistakes?", "A": "Because God loves us, He allows us to make decisions. When we make the wrong choice we make mistakes. When God created humanity, He made us in His image and likeness with a free will, which means that He created us with the freedom to choose between right and wrong. God wanted a family. He didn't want robots. As a result, we are free to either follow after God's ways, or we can choose to rebel against the truths of Scripture. Adam and Eve were given a choice in the Garden of Eden \" and sadly, they chose to disobey God. After the fall, God set in motion a plan to redeem mankind through the loving sacrifice of Jesus \" and all we have to do is \"choose\" to believe in Him and we will be saved. Once we are saved, we have to continually choose to obey God and follow in His ways. However, we are all human and we sometimes make mistakes. The key to abundant life in Jesus is to recognize when we make a mistake, God has given us the free will to make that choice, then to ask God for forgiveness for our sin (1 John 1:9).", "Q": "What kind of friend should you be?", "A": "Scripture says, \"There is no greater love than to lay down one's life for one's friends\" (John 15:13). Speaking of friendship, the Bible declares, \"A friend is always loyal, and a brother is born to help in time of need\" (Proverbs 17:17). So the best way to be a friend to follow the golden rule: \"Do to others whatever you would like them to do to you\" (Matthew 7:12). And the key is to obey the First Commandment, which is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength (Matthew 22:37). Then the second commandment comes directly after, which is to love your neighbor as you love yourself (Matthew 22:39). Someone once said that the way to have a full life is by observing the acronym J.O.Y., which stands for Jesus, Others, and then Yourself. When you walk with these priorities, you will be a true friend to others.", "Q": "Will God get angry and kick me out of His family?", "A": "No. I have good news! God is not angry with you. The Bible says, \"For God made Christ, who never sinned, to be the offering for our sin, so that we could be made right with God through Christ\" (2 Corinthians 5:21). Because Jesus took sin upon Himself on the cross, every believer who accepts Jesus Christ as his or her Lord and Savior becomes a child of God. The Apostle John writes, \"But to all who believed him and accepted him, he gave the right to become children of God.\" Romans 10:9 says, \"If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.\" By confessing Jesus as Lord and believing in your heart that God raised Him from the dead, you become a part of the family of God \" and there is nothing you can do to make God not want you to be in this family (Romans 8:15). Because we are human, we all make mistakes and sin from time to time (Romans 3:23). You need to understand that this sin makes God sad, but He is not angry with you. God is sad because he knows that sin can harm you (Romans 6:23), and He does not want any harm to come to you. So when we sin, it is important that we quickly ask God to forgive us (1 John 1:9) and to cleanse us from all of our sins, both the ones we remember and even the ones we may have forgotten about. Saying we're sorry to God for our sins is called repentance. The word \"repent\" in the Greek literally means to \"change your mind.\" So when we repent for our sins, we are saying sorry to God, and we are promising that, by His grace and with His help, we will not do bad things anymore. But even if we sin again, we need to understand that God loves us. He's our Heavenly Father, and He wants us to ask for forgiveness so that He can bless us and protect us from any plans of the devil. God's love and forgiveness for us through Jesus sacrifice on the cross is one of the reasons why the Gospel is such Good News.", "Q": "Why was the older brother unhappy with the prodigal?", "A": "The older brother had stayed with his father. He was angry with his younger brother because he left. The older brother had the right heart. But he also had spiritual pride. This brother obeyed the law. But he did not have the same love that his father had, and this was his weakness. As Christians, it can be very easy for us to fall into the same trap of spiritual pride that the older brother fell into. We can say, \"Oh I love God, but I don't like people very much.\" But this shows a lack of maturity and a lack of understanding of what God desires for us in this life (1 John 4:20). The Apostle John said that Jesus came in grace and truth (John 1:17). This is significant language because it shows that, with Jesus, grace was first and truth was secondary. Some Christians make the mistake of upholding truth without walking in grace and love. The Bible says, \"Speak the truth in love\" (Ephesians 4:15). In the importance chapter on love, 1 Corinthians 13, the apostle Paul says, \"If I could speak all the languages of earth and of angels, but didn't love others, I would only be a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. If I had the gift of prophecy, and if I understood all of God's secret plans and possessed all knowledge, and if I had such faith that I could move mountains, but didn't love others, I would be nothing\" (1 Corinthians 13:1-2). The older brother understood and obeyed the law, but he did not understand the importance of love. As the father pointed out, this son who once was dead but now was alive (Luke 15:32). He had come back to his father, and that's all that mattered. We need to make sure that we are not judging those who have been disobedient to our Heavenly Father, but instead we need to show the love and grace of God to these people who are often hurting inside. The Bible tells us, \"Love never fails\" (1 Corinthians 13:8) The father in the parable of the prodigal son had true love; when his rebellious son came home. he ran to meet him (Luke 15:20). Let's show the same kind of love to those in our lives who need to see their Heavenly Father and know his grace and his mercy.", "Q": "Does God stand alone?", "A": "When God made a covenant with Israel on Mount Sinai, He declared that He was the one true God. He gave the Israelites the Ten Commandments, which begins with: \"I am the Lord your God, who rescued you from the land of Egypt, the place of your slavery. You must not have any other god but Me\" (Ex. 20:2-3). King Ahab and his wife, Jezebel promoted the worship of false gods. In reality, there is only one God; every other god is a false God. Here is what the apostle Paul wrote on this subject in 1 Corinthians 8:4b-6: \"Well, we all know that an idol is not really a god and that there is only one God. There may be so-called gods both in heaven and on earth, and some people actually worship many gods and many lords. But we know that there is only one God, the Father, who created everything, and we live for Him. And there is only one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom God made everything and through whom we have been given life.\" Yes, every other so-called god is man-made. There is only one God Who created all that we see from nothing! He is the source of life and He gives us the very breath that we breathe! The apostle Paul in Acts 17: 23-25 was dealing with people who worshiped many other gods. One of their gods didn't even have a name! Paul talked to them about the one true God, the creator of life. \"For as I was walking along I saw your many shrines. And one of your altars had this inscription on it: 'To an Unknown God.' This God, whom you worship without knowing, is the one I'm telling you about. He is the God who made the world and everything in it. Since He is Lord of heaven and earth, He doesn't live in man-made temples, and human hands can't serve His needs for He has no needs. He himself gives life and breath to everything, and He satisfies every need.\" God does not want to share our worship with any false god! On Mount Carmel, the false prophets prayed to their idols which were silent. Their idols were not real and they could not receive or respond to the worship of the prophets. God immediately responded to Elijah's prayer on Mount Carmel to prove that God was the one true God of Israel! He sent fire from heaven that burnt up the altar. The people were now convinced that God was the only God. (1 Kings 18:20-38). \"And when all the people saw it, they fell face down on the ground and cried out, \"The Lord He is God! Yes, the Lord is God!\" (1 Kings 18:39). Yes, there is only one God and only He is worthy of our worship and praise!", "Q": "Is evil ever punished or is good rewarded by God?", "A": "God sent a drought to Israel that lasted over three years. King Ahab refused to acknowledge that his sin had provoked the anger of God. Instead he blamed Elijah for the drought and all of the trouble that Israel experienced because of it. \"When Ahab saw him, he exclaimed, \"So, is it really you, you troublemaker of Israel?\" I have made no trouble for Israel,\" Elijah replied. \"You and your family are the troublemakers, for you have refused to obey the commands of the Lord and have worshiped the images of Baal instead.\" (1 Kings 18: 17-18). Sometime later, Jezebel had an innocent man named Naboth killed so Ahab could take ownership of his property. Though it seemed like Ahab and Jezebel had gotten away with many evil, wicked deeds, it was soon time to reap what they had sown. God sent Elijah to tell him that God was about to punish not only him, but his family too \" including Jezebel! They would all experience painful deaths. Elijah's prophecy of God's judgment came true. (1 Kings 21:17-22; 1 Kings 22:32-38; 2 Kings 9:30-37). Elijah was weary from doing good and constantly facing those who chose to do evil. At times, it may seem like we are the only ones serving God! This is how it seemed to Elijah who told God that he was the only prophet left! God told Elijah there were 7,000 others who served Him that had never bowed down to Baal. God knows all those who serve Him and are obedient to His Word. He also sees those who choose to do evil and rebel against Him. (1 Kings 19:10-18). Like Elijah, it is easy to become weary of doing good when we are surrounded by evil. God's angels ministered to and strengthened Elijah. We also need to spend time in God's presence to renew our strength. Galatians 6:7-9 says, \"Don't be misled you cannot mock the justice of God. You will always harvest what you plant. Those who live only to satisfy their own sinful nature will harvest decay and death from that sinful nature. But those who live to please the Spirit will harvest everlasting life from the Spirit. So let's not get tired of doing what is good. At just the right time we will reap a harvest of blessing if we don't give up.\" Everyone will reap what they have sown whether it is evil or good! This is not the time to give up; there is a harvest of blessing coming to those who sow righteousness!", "Q": "How can we overcome human weakness?", "A": "Elijah was a bold and powerful prophet of God, yet he still was human. Jezebel was furious that Elijah had killed her prophets, and she vowed to kill him. In fear, Elijah ran into the wilderness, sat under a tree, exhausted and depleted, he asked God to take his life. Instead, God sent an angel to feed and strengthen Elijah. He then traveled for 40 days and 40 nights to Mount Sinai by God's strength. God spoke to him in different ways as Elijah stood in a cave. Then God sent Elijah to Damascus to anoint two kings. Elijah then was sent to train Elisha, and anointed him to succeed Elijah as a prophet. (1 Kings 19:1-21). Elijah had been ready to throw in the towel in his own strength and will. Instead, he was renewed and refreshed by spending time in God's presence to continue to do God's will. We are no different than Elijah. We have our ups and downs, our strong and weak times. Some days we feel like there is nothing we can't do; the next day we may feel like we can't do anything! The answer is to spend time in God's presence; in praise and worship, reading His Word, praying, and simply waiting on Him. Isaiah 40:31 says: \"But those who trust in the Lord will find new strength. They will soar high on wings like eagles. They will run and not grow weary. They will walk and not faint.\" Jesus demonstrated the need to be alone with God to renew His strength while He was a man on this earth. \"But despite Jesus' instructions, the report of His power spread even faster, and vast crowds came to hear Him preach and to be healed of their diseases. But Jesus often withdrew to the wilderness for prayer.\" (Luke 5:15-16). Because Jesus experienced human weakness, He is able to help us when we are weak. Hebrews 4:15 says, \"This High Priest of ours understands our weaknesses, for He faced all of the same testings we do, yet He did not sin.\" Isn't that amazing? What hope and encouragement that should give us! Jesus faced all of the same things we face and He was victorious every time. He was without sin! He felt every weakness we will ever experience. Now He is in heaven as our High Priest interceding for us and standing by to help us have the victory over any type of weakness. Whenever we feel weak and are ready to give up, remember this verse: \"He gives power to the weak and strength to the powerless.\" (Isaiah 40:29).", "Q": "How can I discern truth?", "A": "The Israelites were deceived by King Ahab and Jezebel, along with her 850 false prophets of Baal and Asherah. When Elijah asked them to choose who they would follow, Baal or the one true God, they were silent. Did they really not know the truth? The Bible tells us that there are many false prophets in this world. 1 John 4:1-2 says: \"Dear friends, do not believe everyone who claims to speak by the Spirit. You must test them to see if the spirit they have comes from God. For there are many false prophets in the world. By this you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God.\" We are told to test every spirit. To do this we need the Holy Spirit to help us discern truth from falsehood. The good news is that the Holy Spirit lives inside every born again believer of Jesus. He can help us no matter where we are or what we are doing. Jesus sent Him to lead us into all truth! \"When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth. He will not speak on his own but will tell you what he has heard. He will tell you about the future.\" (John 16:13). We also are to determine if words spoken or taught agree with God's Word. If not, we must reject those words! The Bible says this about prophecies, \"But test everything that is said. Hold on to what is good. Stay away from every kind of evil.\" (1 Thessalonians 5:21-22). Thankfully, we have the power and wisdom of the Holy Spirit in us. We must allow the Spirit of truth to speak to us before we accept something as God's truth.", "Q": "Do I need to decide who I will serve?", "A": "Israel's own king Ahab made a decision to bow down to Baal after he married the wicked woman named Jezebel. (1 Kings 16:29-33). His idolatry influenced the people of Israel. They also strayed from serving only God. Elijah boldly stood up and challenged the Israelites to make a decision to serve Baal or to serve God. \"Then Elijah stood in front of them and said, \"How much longer will you waver, hobbling between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow Him! But if Baal is God, then follow him!\" But the people were completely silent.\" (1 Kings 18:21). It is hard to believe that the Israelites would not commit to following God; yet they did not respond! This is nothing new for God's people. Years before when the Israelites entered the Promised Land, Joshua issued a similar challenge to God's people. \"So fear the Lord and serve Him wholeheartedly. Put away forever the idols your ancestors worshiped when they lived beyond the Euphrates River and in Egypt. Serve the Lord alone. But if you refuse to serve the Lord, then choose today whom you will serve. Would you prefer the gods your ancestors served beyond the Euphrates? Or will it be the gods of the Amorites in whose land you now live? But as for me and my family, we will serve the Lord.\" (Joshua 24:15). Did you notice that Joshua had already made his decision? He did not wait to see who the majority chose to serve! He chose to serve God! This is important for us to understand. We must all make a choice. There is no middle ground. We cannot straddle the fence; one day serving God if it is convenient, and one day following the ways of the world. The leaders of God's people time and time again called the people to renew their covenant, or promise, to God to serve and obey His commandments. When we choose God, each day we must dedicate ourselves to serving Him and obeying His Word. The apostle Paul wrote this to God's people to challenge them to live for God and not for the world. \"And so, dear brothers and sisters, I plead with you to give your bodies to God because of all He has done for you. Let them be a living and holy sacrifice the kind He will find acceptable. This is truly the way to worship Him. Don't copy the behavior and customs of this world, but let God transform you into a new person by changing the way you think. Then you will learn to know God's will for you, which is good and pleasing and perfect.\" (Romans 12:1-2)", "Q": "Why was John's father Zechariah struck dumb when he spoke with the angel Gabriel?", "A": "Mary had a legitimate question for the angel Gabriel, even though her heart was full of faith. Zechariah did not believe the report of the angel, and his question was full of doubt. As a result, he was struck dumb until the birth of his son. When he agreed with the direction of the angel to name the child John -- a declaration of faith by the priest of God -- his tongue was loosened, and he declared the praises of God and a prophetic word concerning his son.", "Q": "Why did Elizabeth's baby leap in her womb at the sound of Mary's greeting?", "A": "The Bible says, \"At the sound of Mary's greeting, Elizabeth's child leaped within her, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit\" (Luke 1:41). The Holy Spirit within Elizabeth and John bore witness to the fact that Mary was carrying the Messiah, Jesus the Christ. Scripture tell us that prophetically, \"Elizabeth gave a glad cry and exclaimed to Mary, 'God has blessed you above all women, and your child is blessed. Why am I so honored, that the mother of my Lord should visit me? When I heard your greeting, the baby in my womb jumped for joy'\" (Luke 1:42-44). In the same way, the Holy Spirit bears witness in the lives of other people that you bear the presence of Christ in your life. So shine the light!", "Q": "How was Zechariah able to speak again?", "A": "Zechariah had not believed the word of the Lord through Gabriel and had been struck dumb (unable to speak). But in His mercy, God gave Zechariah another chance. When the child was born, he wrote out his faith declaration: \"His name is John.\" Instantly Zechariah could speak again, and he began praising God.", "Q": "Why is Mary's response to Gabriel so powerful and important?", "A": "Mary responded, \"I am the Lord's servant. May everything you have said about me come true.\" This is one of the most remarkable statements of faith in the entire Bible. As a Jewish girl raised in a faithful household, she understood the gravity of the declaration of the angel that the Messiah would be coming into the world soon. She would be the one chosen to carry that prophetic infant in her womb. Appearing pregnant in her village before marriage could get her stoned to death. So her statement of faith shows courage on both levels and provides us with a glowing example of faithfulness to God and His plan.", "Q": "What does the birth of John the Baptist tell us about the ministry of angels?", "A": "Angels are mentioned nearly 300 times in the Bible. They were created by God to serve Him and act as His messengers and agents. Paul writes in Colossians 1:16, \"For through Jesus God created everything in the heavenly realms and on earth. He made the things we can see and the things we can't see such as thrones, kingdoms, rulers, and authorities in the unseen world. Everything was created through him and for him.\" Angels carry out various assignments for God, including worshiping God (Revelation 4:8), protecting and ministering to God's people (Hebrews 1:14), performing the will of God (Psalm 104:4), and acting as God's messengers (Genesis 22:11-12, Acts 8:26, Acts 27:23). In the book of Luke, we see Gabriel bringing the message of God to both Zechariah and Mary. He also had authority from God to speak judgment against Zechariah (Luke 1:19-20) and blessing upon Mary (Luke 1:28).", "Q": "Why was Naaman willing to go see Elisha in Israel?", "A": "He was seeking healing from leprosy. Leprosy has been a scourge on the human condition for thousands of years. Anyone who is stricken with this disease knows that they will endure years of pain and ultimately death. Naaman was a powerful man and a warrior who was used to giving commands and having those commands obeyed. When he discovered that he was stricken with leprosy, he searched for a cure -- and of course, at that time, there was no cure. One day, his wife's Israelite servant girl told her about the power of God moving through the prophet Elisha. When he heard of the ministry of Elisha, Naaman was willing to humble his pride, leave his homeland, and travel to Israel in order to see the prophet of God. He was a man without many options and so God became his only hope. We are like Naaman that we don't always recognize that our lives are held together by God's power and grace. And that is why, like Naaman, we must come humbly before the Lord to obtain favor and mercy in our time of need.", "Q": "How did Naaman's officers advise him?", "A": "His officers convinced him of the wisdom of obeying the commands of the prophet. By doing so, Naaman received his healing. It is wise to learn to listen to those around you, no matter what their station in life, knowing that sometimes God uses the weak and the seemingly insignificant to speak to us and keep us humble.", "Q": "What did the obedience of Naaman demonstrate?", "A": "This was a demonstration of humility. Naaman was a warrior who won many battles for his king and his country. So his king, his soldiers, and the people of Syria heaped praise upon him. He was accustomed to being in charge and to giving the orders. So when he came before the man of God, he had difficulty humbling himself in obedience to the Lord's instructions. In fact, he almost lost out on his healing because he did not want to follow the instructions of Elisha to bathe in the Jordan River. He declared that the rivers in Damascus were cleaner than any river in Israel. But he listened to the advice of his captains, humbled himself, and obeyed the word of the Lord -- and thus received his healing. When we come before the Lord in our time of prayer, it's important for us to humble ourselves like Naaman did to receive favor from God. Scripture says that we can come before the throne of grace to receive mercy and favor in our time of need. But this only can happen if we are willing to humble ourselves and recognize that Jesus is Lord and that we are His servants.", "Q": "Why did Elisha refuse Naaman's gifts?", "A": "Elisha was totally surrendered to God in every area of his life. He did not want money, wealth, power, or prestige to interfere with the call of God that was on his life. He did not want sin to come between him and the Lord or to hinder the Lord's work through his life because of his greed. The Bible doesn't say whether God told him not to receive the gift from Naaman, but we see that Elisha was quick to refuse the offer, desiring only to honor God. In the same way, each one of us needs to be careful to check our heart and our motives in pursuing wealth, especially when it has to do with the kingdom of God or ministry to others. Where our treasure is, there will heart be also. The love of money is the root of all evil (1 Timothy 6:10), and so we must not allow the love of money to interfere with the calling of God on our lives.", "Q": "Why did Naaman want dirt from Elisha's place?", "A": "Naaman was returning to a place where false gods were worshiped everywhere. He wanted to always remember the true God who healed him. So he planned on taking dirt from where Elisha, the man of God, lived. Naaman would build and altar on the dirt and make an offering to the one true God.", "Q": "Who is my neighbor and how should I treat them?", "A": "Jesus taught in the Good Samaritan parable that everyone is our neighbor. He also said that we must love our neighbor as ourselves. In the parable we see that the Samaritan compassion, generosity, and kindness, and mercy to the Jewish man. He went out of his way to care for Him when the man was left for dead beside the road. Whoever has a need; that is our neighbor! How important is it to love our neighbor? The Pharisees were trying once again to trap Jesus by asking questions of Him. An expert in religious law asked Jesus what the most important commandments was. \"Jesus replied, \"'You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind.' This is the first and greatest commandment. A second is equally important: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.' The entire law and all the demands of the prophets are based on these two commandments.\" (Matthew 22:37-40) According to Jesus' answer- loving our neighbor is very important! You have probably heard of the Golden Rule. Jesus said it in Matthew 7:12. \"Do to others whatever you would like them to do to you. This is the essence of all that is taught in the law and the prophets. (Matthew 7:12). How would you like to be treated? Treat others that way. Would you like mercy? Show mercy to others. Would you like to be forgiven? Forgive others. This is how we love our neighbor as ourselves!", "Q": "Does God expect me to share my possessions and my time with others?", "A": "Are you generous? What does it even mean to be generous? It means to freely and willingly give or share all or more than is needed or required. The Samaritan in Jesus' parable was both kind and generous. He risked his own life by stopping to help the injured man. The bandits could have been hiding and waiting for someone to stop to help so they could attack again. Then he used his own oil, wine, and bandages to care for the man's wounds. He placed the man on his own donkey and brought him to the inn. He wasn't done yet! He paid the innkeeper what amounted to about two day's wages at that time. The next day, he promised to pay the innkeeper for any additional expenses needed to care for the man until he was well! What an example Jesus gave to us of generously caring for our neighbor. What the Samaritan did was for a friend or fellow Samaritan; yet, he did all of this for his despised Jewish enemy! (Luke 10:25-37). Are we generous like the Samaritan? Or, do we try to give the least amount of time, effort, or money to a need or request? What is our attitude when we give or help? Are we cheerful and eager to give? Or, do we do it grudgingly and complain as we do it? 2 Corinthians 9:7-9 says, \"You must each decide in your heart how much to give. And don't give reluctantly or in response to pressure. \"For God loves a person who gives cheerfully.\" And God will generously provide all you need. Then you will always have everything you need and plenty left over to share with others. As the Scriptures say, \"They share freely and give generously to the poor. Their good deeds will be remembered forever.\" God's response to our generosity is to be generous with us! He will give us all we need and even more to share with others! We love and serve a generous God. How generous? He sent His only Son to die for our sin so that we might live with Him forever! When we are connected to Christ, God generously blesses our lives. \"All praise to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly realms because we are united with Christ.\" (Ephesians 1:3).", "Q": "Jesus told the scribe to show mercy. Are we required to show mercy too?", "A": "Jesus closed the parable of the Good Samaritan by asking the scribe a question. \"Now which of these three would you say was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by bandits?\" Jesus asked. The man replied, \"The one who showed him mercy.\" Then Jesus said, \"Yes, now go and do the same.\" (Luke 10:36-37). It is interesting that the scribe would not say it was the Samaritan. He said \"the one who showed mercy\". It must have been very difficult to hear Jesus' parable. No doubt the scribe had his own ideas of who his neighbors were. The Samaritans were not on the list! Jesus told the scribe to go show mercy to others; not just his friends, or fellow leaders \" everyone. The words of Jesus are spoken to us too! We must also show mercy. So, what does it mean to show mercy? It means to show others loving-kindness and compassion; to show pity and be ready to help someone who is in trouble. Doesn't that describe the Samaritan actions? This is how Jesus represented mercy in the parable. Before Jesus told his parable, two of Jesus' disciples didn't want to show mercy to their neighbors, the Samaritans! They asked Jesus if they should send fire from heaven to destroy the Samaritan village! All because they didn't welcome Jesus! Jesus sternly rebuked them! (Luke 9: 51-56) What do you long for when you mess up or sin; mercy, right? The good news for us is that God is the source of mercy! \"So let us come boldly to the throne of our gracious God. There we will receive his mercy, and we will find grace to help us when we need it most.\" (Hebrews 4:16). That's a relief! When we need it most, we can be confident in approaching God to receive mercy. Since we receive mercy, Jesus wants us to show others the same!", "Q": "Why did Jesus so often rebuke the religious leaders who appeared to be righteous and followed God's Law?", "A": "The scribe, an expert in the law, wanted Jesus to validate his actions and attitude toward others who he considered to be his neighbors. The scribes and other religious leaders of Jesus' day appeared on the outside to obey God in word and deed. Yet, Jesus saw their heart and motives on the inside. He saw who they really were and He had harsh words for them. Matthew 23:27:28 says, \"What sorrow awaits you teachers of religious law and you Pharisees. Hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs beautiful on the outside but filled on the inside with dead people's bones and all sorts of impurity. Outwardly you look like righteous people, but inwardly your hearts are filled with hypocrisy and lawlessness.\" Imagine the surprise and embarrassment when the scribe heard Jesus' parable. Instead of validating him, Jesus pointed out the Samaritan as a true neighbor rather than the Jewish priest or the Temple assistant (Luke 10:25-37). God often rebuked the religious leaders of His day because they were hypocrites. They liked to put on a show for others rather than live a life filled with truth and love. God has always placed more importance on the inside versus the outside of a person. We see this when the prophet Samuel went to anoint one of Jesse's sons as king. 1 Samuel 16:7 says, \"But the Lord said to Samuel, \"Don't judge by his appearance or height, for I have rejected him. The Lord doesn't see things the way you see them. People judge by outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.\" Yes, God looks at the inner man; beyond what we can see with our physical eyes. Later in King David's life he had committed sins against Uriah, one of his officers. He committed adultery with Uriah's wife and then had Uriah sent to the front lines in battle so he would be killed. (2 Samuel 11:15; 2 Samuel 12:1-13). David had fooled everyone. He had literally gotten away with murder! Yet, He had not fooled God. God sent the prophet Nathan to expose David's sin. David then pleaded with God to forgive him and restore him. He asked God to cleanse him and purify his heart and his inward parts (Hebrew wording). (Psalm 51:1-3; 6-10). Let us be more concerned about being pure inside than impressing or fooling others on the outside! Let us pray daily that the Holy Spirit would cleanse and purify our hearts!", "Q": "Who did Jesus tell us to share the Gospel with?", "A": "The Samaritans and Jews both claimed their Temple was the true place to worship God. The Samaritan woman spoke about this when she talked to Jesus at the well. \"So tell me, why is it that you Jews insist that Jerusalem is the only place of worship, while we Samaritans claim it is here at Mount Gerizim, where our ancestors worshiped?\" (John 4: 20). Jesus responded that soon it would not matter where God was worshiped. He wanted all people to worship Him in spirit and in truth. This pointed to a time when the Holy Spirit would fill and dwell in all believers after Jesus' death, resurrection, and return to heaven. (John 4:21-24). But, before anyone can worship in spirit and truth, they must hear the Gospel of Jesus Christ! In Acts 1:8, Jesus proclaimed that believers would be filled with the Spirit to give them power to take the Gospel everywhere on the earth. This included Samaria! \"But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere in Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.\" By the power of God's Spirit, a man named Philip preached to the Samaritans who believed and were saved. He performed many miracles there. The apostles in Jerusalem heard what was happening in Samaria and came to lay hands on the people so they could be filled with the Holy Spirit! On the way back to Jerusalem they preached the Gospel in Samaritan villages along the way. (Acts 8:4-25). Yes, the Gospel was and is for everyone, both Jews and Gentiles alike. There is no one true place to worship God. Regardless of who or where we are, when we worship God in spirit and truth, our worship is accepted and pleasing to God!", "Q": "How can unity be used as a force?", "A": "Scripture says, \"How wonderful and pleasant it is when brothers live together in harmony! For harmony is as precious as the anointing oil that was poured over Aaron's head, that ran down his beard and onto the border of his robe. Harmony is as refreshing as the dew from Mount Hermon that falls on the mountains of Zion. And there the LORD has pronounced his blessing\" (Psalm 133:1-3). God blesses unity. The Bible says, \"If two of you agree here on earth concerning anything you ask, my Father in heaven will do it for you\" (Matthew 18:19). So there is great spiritual power in the prayer of unity. When a church is united in its vision and the people get behind the leadership in service, it's amazing what can be done to make an impact on a community for the Gospel.", "Q": "Why would people unite against a loving God?", "A": "Pride. The first sin ever committed was the sin of pride when Lucifer rose up in heaven to make himself like God (Isaiah 14:13-15). In his madness, he convinced one third of heaven and angels to join with them in rebellion (Revelation 12:3-9). This was despite the fact that these angels were in God's very presence. God is at work reconciling sinful man to Himself (2 Corinthians 5).", "Q": "How does the devil divide Christians?", "A": "He does this using several evil tools, including jealousy, pride, anger, fear, confusion, and lies. The book of Proverbs says, \"Love prospers when a fault is forgiven, but dwelling on it separates close friends\" (Proverbs 17:9). The devil loves to use the evil tool of jealousy by saying, \"Look, God must not love you as much as he loves the other person.\" A mature Christian recognizes differences and gives grace to those who may disagree with them. It is so important for believers to learn how to forgive those who wronged us (Mark 11:25). If we can forgive those who have done us wrong rather than holding on to anger and the offense, we defeat the devil and strengthen the Kingdom of God.", "Q": "How did God's people walk in unity?", "A": "Jesus' disciples gathered together in unity and in prayer, following Jesus' command to go back to Jerusalem and wait for the Holy Spirit (Acts 2:1). On the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit was poured out in power on these disciples who were gathered in one accord (Acts 2:2-4). Later, the disciples shared many things and walked in harmony, and God blessed the church and added to their numbers daily (Acts 2:42-47). The early church should be our model and example for how to walk in unity and see the blessings of God.", "Q": "Why did Abraham send his servant?", "A": "After the death of Sarah, Abraham called for his oldest servant, the man in charge of his household. \"Take an oath by putting your hand under my thigh. Swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and earth, that you will not allow my son to marry one of these local Canaanite women. Go instead to my homeland, to my relatives, and find a wife there for my son Isaac.\" Abraham knew that the local Canaanites were involved in various immoral practices, including sexual immorality. Among all the religious rituals of Palestine, one of the most evil practices was human sacrifice -- and in particular the burnt offering of children. Archaeological discoveries and ancient texts show the charred skeletons of children that have been discovered together at Gezer, Ta'anach, and Megiddo in Palestine. Later, the prophet Jeremiah spoke of how that Israelites had built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in fire as offerings to Baal (Jeremiah 19:5). Abraham did not want his son to intermarry with the daughters of people and be influenced by their way.", "Q": "What does the faithfulness of Abraham's servant teach us?", "A": "It teaches us that \"If you are faithful in little things, you will be faithful in large ones. But if you are dishonest in little things, you won't be honest with greater responsibilities\" (Luke 16:10). Abraham's servant was faithful, and so he was placed in charge of the household. Then Abraham entrusted him with the most important assignment -- seeking a wife for his son, Isaac. Abraham's servant demonstrated his faithfulness not only to his master, but also to God. In the pursuit of a wife for Isaac, the servant placed his trust in God and asked for his help. God heard his prayer and directed him to Rebekah. We can learn much of faithfulness from this servant of Abraham, and this servant of God.", "Q": "What does Abraham's servant teach us about prayer?", "A": "Throughout the Scripture we see stories of people who cried out to the Lord for help -- and how God heard and answered the prayers of the righteous. In this story we see that the servant of Abraham cried out to God for help in finding the wife for Isaac: \"\"O Lord, God of my master, Abraham,\" he prayed. \"Please give me success today, and show unfailing love to my master, Abraham. See, I am standing here beside this spring, and the young women of the town are coming out to draw water. This is my request. I will ask one of them, 'Please give me a drink from your jug.' If she says, 'Yes, have a drink, and I will water your camels, too!' let her be the one you have selected as Isaac's wife. This is how I will know that you have shown unfailing love to my master.\" (Genesis 24:12) Before he had finished praying, Rebekah came out with her water jug and did exactly what he prayed. Abraham's servant bowed low and worshiped the Lord. \"Praise the Lord, the God of my master, Abraham,\" he said. \"The Lord has shown unfailing love and faithfulness to my master, for he has led me straight to my master's relatives.\" Just as God answered the prayer of the righteous servant of Abraham, He will hear and answer our prayers if we serve Him with humility and walk in His ways.", "Q": "What can we learn of God's guidance from Abraham's servant?", "A": "Abraham's servant asked God to direct him to the woman who was to be the wife for Isaac. God was faithful to answer his prayer -- just as He will be faithful to lead you if you ask Him and follow in His ways. The writer of Hebrews tells us that we can train our ear to recognize the voice of God above all the noise. \"But solid food belongs to those who are of full age, that is, those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil\" (Hebrews 5:14). It is by practicing, by reason of use, that we are able to discern whether what we hear is of God, our flesh, or the Devil. Isaiah 30:21 says, \"Your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, \"This is the way, walk in it,\" Whenever you turn to the right hand or whenever you turn to the left.\" So God will speak, and you can hear His voice, but you must be careful -- especially when you are a young Christian -- that you objectively confirm that you are following the Holy Spirit and not another voice. Our own flesh can scream pretty loud (especially when we are under pressure, or we want something very badly). And the Devil is the father of lies -- he is the great deceiver. The bottom line is that big decisions require a lot of prayer. In other words, as we humble ourselves before the Lord, seek His guidance in our lives, the Good Shepherd will be faithful to lead us, \"in paths of righteousness for His name's sake\" (Psalm 23:3) -- just as he guided Abraham's servant when he cried out for help in prayer.", "Q": "What can we learn of marriage from Isaac and Rebekah?", "A": "There are several lessons to be learned from this story regarding godly marriage. First, Abraham insisted that his servant find a wife for Isaac from within his own family. Today, God calls believer to not be yoked in marriage to an unbeliever (2 Corinthians 6:14). Next we see that Abraham's servant sought the Lord in prayer to find the right mate for Isaac. In every decision we must seek the will of our Heavenly Father in prayer, as Jesus taught us to declare, \"Your Kingdom come, your will be done...\" (Matthew 6:10). Finally, we see that Isaac took Rebekah into his home and she comforted him after the loss of his mother, Sarah. God calls a man and a woman together to love, comfort, and protect each other. Marriage is a symbol of the love between Christ and His Church (Ephesians 5:32).", "Q": "Why was the voice of the Lord, and dreams and visions rare in the time of Eli when Samuel was a little boy?", "A": "When Samuel was a little boy there was not a zeal for God among the leadership of Israel. Eli had not raised his sons properly to fear the Lord, and they had all grown fat, both literally and figuratively, through their disdain for God's people and their sacrifices. When people allow their hearts to grow cold to God, they stop being able to listen and hear his voice.", "Q": "Why didn't Eli recognize that it was God who was calling to Samuel at first?", "A": "Hebrews 5:14 says that those were mature, by reason of use, have their senses exercised to discern between good and evil. Eli had allowed himself to become spiritually, physically, and mentally lazy. He had stopped listening for the voice of the Lord. So when Samuel heard God's voice, but didn't know it was God, Eli didn't recognize God was communicating until the third time it happened. We need to be careful that we do not allow ourselves to grow spiritually lazy. Instead, we need to constantly be listening for God to speak to us and then share that message with others.", "Q": "What lesson can we learn from the judgment that came upon Eli and his sons?", "A": "The Bible says that God is not willing any should perish but that all she come to repentance (2 Peter 3:9). Scripture says that God is slow to anger (Numbers 14:18), and quick to forget. God sent Eli to warn his sons to repent and turn away from their wickedness. Then he sent a man of God to bring a further warning to them. But Phineas and Hophni would not repent, and so God's judgment came to them. We need to be careful to keep short accounts with God and to not allow there to be ongoing unrepentant sin in our lives. The wages of sin are still death if we refuse to repent and seek God's forgiveness for the sin in our lives. We may not lose our salvation, but ongoing sin will hinder our relationship with God and cause tragedy in our lives if we allow it to go unchecked.", "Q": "What can we learn about prophecy and hearing the voice of God through the story of Samuel the boy prophet?", "A": "Prophecy is simply hearing God speak, then repeating exactly what He said to others without adding or taking anything away from it. If God can speak to a young boy like Samuel, and he can grow up to become a great prophet who influenced all of Israel, then any New Testament believer with the Holy Spirit residing within them can hear God's voice and can become a mighty man or woman of God if they will learn to listen and obey.", "Q": "Can I take revenge on someone who has wronged me?", "A": "It's payback time! The temptation to repay evil with evil is something we all face. In the heat of the moment, after an offense or hurt, it's time to plan our revenge! David had more than one opportunity to repay Saul for his evil deeds. Saul had even tried to kill him more than once! Yet, when David's chance for revenge came, he chose to leave judgment God's hands. David said, \"May the LORD judge between us. Perhaps the LORD will punish you for what you are trying to do to me, but I will never harm you.\" (1 Samuel 24:12). Saul was amazed. \"And he said to David, \"You are a better man than I am, for you have repaid me good for evil.\" (1 Samuel 24:17). David had great respect and honor for King Saul because God's anointing was on him. God does not want us to repay evil with good. In fact, we are to do the opposite! \"Don't repay evil for evil. Don't retaliate with insults when people insult you. Instead, pay them back with a blessing. That is what God has called you to do, and he will bless you for it.\" (1 Peter 3:9) Leaving revenge in God's hands is not always easy. Yet, when we do, God takes notice and rewards us. Romans 12:19 says, \"Dear friends, never take revenge. Leave that to the righteous anger of God. For the Scriptures say, \"I will take revenge; I will pay them back,\" says the Lord.\" Our best example of repaying evil with good comes from Jesus. While hanging from the cross, Jesus didn't ask God to punish those who were crucifying Him; instead He ask God to forgive them! (Luke 23:34).", "Q": "God's Spirit came upon Saul and David. Does the Spirit come upon us in the same way?", "A": "Samuel met Saul when he was looking for his father's lost donkeys. As Saul was leaving to go home, Samuel told him that God's Spirit would come upon him and change him. \"At that time the Spirit of the Lord will come powerfully upon you, and you will prophesy with them. You will be changed into a different person.\" This is exactly what happened. \"When Saul and his servant arrived at Gibeah, they saw a group of prophets coming toward them. Then the Spirit of God came powerfully upon Saul, and he, too, began to prophesy.\" Soon after Saul became king, the Spirit came upon Saul again and empowered him to lead the Israelites to victory against their enemy, the Ammonites (1 Samuel 10:6,10; 1 Samuel 11:6). After God rejected Saul as king, Samuel anointed David to be King of Israel. The Spirit then came upon David powerfully. \"So as David stood there among his brothers, Samuel took the flask of olive oil he had brought and anointed David with the oil. And the Spirit of the LORD came powerfully upon David from that day on. Then Samuel returned to Ramah.\" (1 Samuel 16:13) To anoint means to cover with oil. Oil is a symbol of the Holy Spirit. There are many examples in the Old Testament where God's Spirit coming powerfully upon His people to anoint them for mighty works. So, what about us today; does the Spirit come upon us in the same way? This is the exciting part! When Jesus returned to heaven, God sent a gift to all believers. He sent the Holy Spirit to fill us! Today, God's Spirit doesn't just come upon us; He actually lives in us! (1 John 2:27; 1 Corinthians 3:16). This means that we can experience God's power and anointing continually each day!", "Q": "Saul was jealous of David; why is jealousy harmful to us?", "A": "Saul was the anointed King of Israel. He had God's Spirit and favor upon on him. Yet, Saul became jealous of David's ability, success, and popularity with God's people. \"When the victorious Israelite army was returning home after David had killed the Philistine, women from all the towns of Israel came out to meet King Saul. They sang and danced for joy with tambourines and cymbals.This was their song: \"Saul has killed his thousands, and David his ten thousands!\" This made Saul very angry. \"What's this?\" he said. \"They credit David with ten thousands and me with only thousands. Next they'll be making him their king!\" So from that time on Saul kept a jealous eye on David.\" (1 Samuel 18:6-9). Instead of asking for His help, Saul allowed the jealousy to grow in his heart. This led to disobedience and other sinful acts. This is exactly what the Bible warns us about. \"For wherever there is jealousy and selfish ambition, there you will find disorder and evil of every kind.\" (James 3:16). So how should we respond to other's possessions or success instead of being filled with jealousy? 1 Thessalonians 5:13 says, \"Be thankful in all circumstances, for this is God's will for you who belong to Christ Jesus.\" Instead of being jealous, God wants us to be thankful for other's blessings. Psalm 103:2 says, \"Let all that I am praise the LORD; may I never forget the good things he does for me.\" Instead of focusing on what others have, praise God for what He has given you! Yes, jealousy is dangerous and leads to other sin. We must guard our hearts and fill them with thanksgiving, not jealousy. \"Anger is cruel, and wrath is like a flood, but jealousy is even more dangerous.\" (Proverbs 27:4)", "Q": "David showed respect to Saul even when Saul was evil. Do we always have to show respect to leaders?", "A": "Saul was jealous of David and tried to harm him many times. David knew that Saul was God's anointed and chosen leader. He refused to dishonor God by showing disrespect to King Saul. \"David came out and shouted after him, \"My lord the king!\" And when Saul looked around, David bowed low before him. Then he shouted to Saul, \"Why do you listen to the people who say I am trying to harm you? This very day you can see with your own eyes it isn't true. For the LORD placed you at my mercy back there in the cave. Some of my men told me to kill you, but I spared you. For I said, 'I will never harm the king he is the Lord's anointed one.' (1 Samuel 24:8-10) David greeted Saul as his lord the king. This is difficult to understand after all David had been through. Just minutes before, David had been given the opportunity to kill Saul. His men even encouraged him to do it Yet, David still saw himself as a servant to his king - the Lord's anointed one! Romans 13:1 says, \"Everyone must submit to governing authorities. For all authority comes from God, and those in positions of authority have been placed there by God.\" Let David be our example of honoring leaders. We may not agree with their actions, decisions or policies, but we are told in God's word to honor them.", "Q": "Do I really need to admit to God that I have sinned; doesn't He already know?", "A": "Saul greeted Samuel and bragged that he had carried out God's command. This was far from the truth. God's orders were to completely destroy the evil Amalekites who had opposed the Israelites when they left Egypt. Instead, Saul chose to spare the king's life, and keep the best animals, and valuable objects for himself. He only destroyed what was worthless (1 Samuel 15:8-9). Samuel confronted Saul with his sin. Saul denied that He had done anything wrong. He told Samuel that he completed the mission God gave him. \"But I did obey the LORD,\" Saul insisted. \"I carried out the mission he gave me. I brought back King Agag, but I destroyed everyone else. Then my troops brought in the best of the sheep, goats, cattle, and plunder to sacrifice to the LORD your God in Gilgal.\" (1 Samuel 15:20-21). Sin cannot be hidden from God. Because Saul continued to disobey God and would not repent, God rejected Saul and removed his kingdom from him. God will not be mocked! 1 John 1:8-9 says, \"If we claim we have no sin, we are only fooling ourselves and not living in the truth. But if we confess our sins to him, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all wickedness.\" When we make excuses for our sin, we fool ourselves, not God. If we will confess our sins - if we admit that we have sinned and have offended God - He will forgive us and cleanse us! God sent the prophet Nathan to King David to reveal David's secret sin. David had successfully hidden his sin from others, but God knew! When Nathan revealed the sin to David, David was heartbroken and repented of his sin. He asked God for His mercy and forgiveness. \"Have mercy on me, O God, because of your unfailing love. Because of your great compassion, blot out the stain of my sins. Wash me clean from my guilt. Purify me from my sin. For I recognize my rebellion; it haunts me day and night. Against you, and you alone, have I sinned; I have done what is evil in your sight. You will be proved right in what you say, and your judgment against me is just.\" (Psalm 51:1-4). This is the correct response to sin. It is right to apologize to others we have sinned against, but don't forget that God has been offended and sinned against too! David recognized and understood how he had fallen short of God's Word. In contrast, Saul didn't make the connection; he was in denial and fooling himself. We must never try to hide our sin. Always come to God and confess your sin; repent and ask God to cleanse and forgive you! He is faithful to do it every time!", "Q": "How can I do God's work if people are making fun of me?", "A": "Sanballat and Tobiah mocked Nehemiah and the Israelite workers. To mock someone means to cruelly laugh at or make fun of someone. Nehemiah did not let anything on the earth discourage him or delay his work. He had an important job to do - his orders came from God in heaven! Sanballat and Tobiah would not give up. Four times they tried to arrange meetings with Nehemiah to distract and harm him. But. Nehemiah knew it was a trap! He said, \"I am engaged in a great work, so I can't come. Why should I stop working to come and meet with you?\" In fact, Nehemiah said this made him even more determined to finish God's work! Now, that is focus and determination! Nehemiah and the people of Israel, with God's help, finished the wall in just 52 days! They completed their work because they focused on God and not the outside noise! As followers of Christ, others may mock us, but we must focus on the job God gave us to do! Psalm 1:1 says, \"Oh, the joys of those who do not follow the advice of the wicked, or stand around with sinners, or join in with mockers.\"", "Q": "Is it necessary for us to be prepared and alert for opposition in today's world?", "A": "Nehemiah stayed alert and ready to protect God's people from the evil plots, schemes, and outright attacks of their enemies! Nehemiah's first response to trouble was prayer. \"But we prayed to our God and guarded the city day and night to protect ourselves.\" Nehemiah and the Israelites did not let their guard down. They armed themselves as they worked, and as they did common tasks during the day. They were willing to do anything it took to be ready for an attack, night or day! \"During this time, none of us--not I, nor my relatives, nor my servants, nor the guards who were with me--ever took off our clothes. We carried our weapons with us at all times, even when we went for water.\" The good news is that we can change our clothes and stay alert too! But, let us follow Nehemiah's example and stay watchful. We should always begin with prayer, and continue to pray throughout each day. Make no mistake, we have an enemy who wants to tempt us, trick us, and distract us! \"Stay alert! Watch out for your great enemy, the devil. He prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour.\" It is easy when things seem to be going well to let our guard down. Like Nehemiah, stay vigilant, stay alert, and ask God to give you discernment to make wise choices. \"So be on your guard, not asleep like the others. Stay alert and be clearheaded.", "Q": "Does it matter how I do the job, as long as I get the job done?", "A": "Nehemiah and the people of Israel worked together to finish the wall in only fifty-two days. Everyone pitched in and worked together to finish God's great work! Nehemiah 4:6 says, \"At last the wall was completed to half its height around the entire city, for the people had worked with enthusiasm.\" It is so much easier and fun to work with someone who is full of energy and enthusiasm, isn't it? And, it is difficult to work with someone who complains, and does as little as possible to get by. Colossians 3:23 says, \"Work willingly at whatever you do, as though you were working for the Lord rather than for people.\" The Bible calls us to be different; to give it all we've got, no matter what the task! Why? Our work is for God! Yes, we must be enthusiastic, and do our best, so we can be an example to others! \"Do everything without complaining and arguing, so that no one can criticize you. Live clean, innocent lives as children of God, shining like bright lights in a world full of crooked and perverse people.\"", "Q": "Where does joy come from; and how can I receive it?", "A": "Ezra and Nehemiah gathered the people to read God's Law to them. As they listened to God's Law, the people wept. When the reading was over, Nehemiah encouraged them to stop weeping and to praise God. He said, \"This is a sacred day before our Lord. Don't be dejected and sad, for the joy of the LORD is your strength!\". We are so blessed to live under the New Covenant as followers of Jesus! The Old Covenant Law only revealed sin and disobedience; it did not bring joy. Jesus came to give us joy and to free us from the burden of the law! Romans 7:6 says, \"But now we have been released from the law, for we died to it and are no longer captive to its power. Now we can serve God, not in the old way of obeying the letter of the law, but in the new way of living in the Spirit.\" Yes, today, we can live for God by the power of the Holy Spirit in us! God's Spirit produces joy in us. He gives us the ability and strength to please God. Are you ready to have joy in your life? Jesus said, \"I have told you these things so that you will be filled with my joy. Yes, your joy will overflow!\".", "Q": "When I am successful, isn't it because of my own ability?", "A": "It was no small feat to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem; especially in 52 days! This did not happen by luck, or by Nehemiah's amazing talent and ability! This work began in prayer; he was intentional about his success! \"O Lord, please hear my prayer! Listen to the prayers of those of us who delight in honoring you. Please grant me success today by making the king favorable to me. Put it into his heart to be kind to me.\" Nehemiah then gave credit to God for giving him favor with the king. When the wall was finished, Nehemiah said, \"When our enemies and the surrounding nations heard about it, they were frightened and humiliated. They realized this work had been done with the help of our God.\" Nehemiah never allowed his success to fill him with pride; he always gave praise to God for his success.", "Q": "Should I be kind only to those who show me kindness?", "A": "The Syrian troops were sent by the king to find and capture Elisha. (2 Kings 6:13-14). Elisha did not ask God to destroy the troops that surrounded him; instead he asked God to blind them temporarily. Elisha led the blind troops back to Samaria and the King of Israel. The king asked Elisha if the men should be killed. Elisha told the king to give them food and drink and send them home to their master. The king made a great feast for them and sent them home unharmed! (2 Kings 6:18-23). Now that is an amazing example of showing kindness to your enemies! Would you agree that we should show mercy and kindness to our friends and family? Most people would agree; but our enemies \" really? Yes, really! Jesus spoke about this in Luke 6:32-36: \"If you love only those who love you, why should you get credit for that? Even sinners love those who love them! And if you do good only to those who do good to you, why should you get credit? Even sinners do that much! And if you lend money only to those who can repay you, why should you get credit? Even sinners will lend to other sinners for a full return. \"Love your enemies! Do good to them. Lend to them without expecting to be repaid. Then your reward from heaven will be very great, and you will truly be acting as children of the Most High, for he is kind to those who are unthankful and wicked. You must be compassionate, just as your Father is compassionate.\" This Passage doesn't leave any doubt. We must treat our enemies with kindness. What makes us different than the world; showing kindness and mercy to those that love us? No! What makes us different is how we treat people who don't like us! This is God's way, not the world's way. We can't do it on our own. We need God's Spirit to show His love and compassion to others! Our natural instinct is to treat them like they treated us. But, Jesus in Luke 6:31, instructs us to act differently. \"Do to others as you would like them to do to you.\" Is this easy? No, certainly not, but our reward from heaven will be great and we will represent the Most High God. As God's children, we must show compassion as God does; especially to our enemies. (Luke 6:35-36).", "Q": "What should I pursue and ask God for while I am living on earth?", "A": "Elijah's time on earth was about to end. He asked Elisha what he could do for him before leaving earth. Elisha asked for a double share of Elijah's spirit to be God's prophet in Elijah's place. He wanted a double blessing from God to serve Him. A double blessing is associated with the inheritance of the first born son. God had previously told Elijah to anoint Elisha to replace him as God's prophet. (1 Kings 19:16, 19-21). So, this was not an arrogant request from Elisha. Elisha's request showed his desire was to continue in Elijah's footsteps! Elisha did not ask for earthly power, fame, or wealth. Instead, he asked for spiritual power to do God's work (2 Kings 2:9). Elisha picked up Elijah's cloak and divided the Jordan River. His request had been granted! This served as a sign to the prophets that Elisha was God's man! \"When the group of prophets from Jericho saw from a distance what happened, they exclaimed, \"Elijah's spirit rests upon Elisha!\" (2 Kings 2:13-15). What would you say if asked the same question? Would you place a priority on God's things as Elijah did? Or, would you focus on your needs and wants on earth? Matthew 6:33 says: \"Seek the Kingdom of God above all else, and live righteously, and he will give you everything you need.\" God does want us to ask for what we need; but this verse says that when we seek Him first, we will receive everything else! Colossians 3:1-2 says: \"Since you have been raised to new life with Christ, set your sights on the realities of heaven, where Christ sits in the place of honor at God's right hand. Think about the things of heaven, not the things of earth.\" What are you focused on today; the things of God or the things of the earth?", "Q": "Loyalty was important in Bible times; is it still important to show loyalty today?", "A": "What does it mean to be loyal? To be loyal means to be faithful in supporting something or someone. It means that you are dependable and reliable and can be counted on and trusted. Three times Elijah told Elisha to stay back when he traveled to different places. Each time, Elisha's response was the same: \"As surely as the Lord lives and you yourself live, I will never leave you!\" To receive a double portion of God's Spirit and take Elijah's place, Elisha needed to see God take Elijah away. Elisha was walking and talking with Elijah when the chariot of fire took Elijah to heaven (2 Kings 2:9-12). Elisha passed the test! He was without doubt, loyal to Elijah. Elisha remained loyal to God and his calling throughout his ministry. It is still important today to be loyal and faithful to God. These are also important traits to have as a friend too. It is easy to be a friend in good times, but how about in difficult times? What if others turn against them, will you stay by their side? The Bible tells us that a loyal friend is not easy to find. \"Many will say they are loyal friends, but who can find one who is truly reliable?\" (Proverbs 20:6). Elijah must have been relieved and comforted knowing that when he left the earth, Elisha would faithfully continue to do God's work. The Bible tells us that there are great rewards for those who are loyal. \"Never let loyalty and kindness leave you! Tie them around your neck as a reminder. Write them deep within your heart. Then you will find favor with both God and people, and you will earn a good reputation.\" (Proverbs 3:3-4). Would you like to walk in God's favor and have favor with people too? That is a double blessing that is promised to us when we are loyal!", "Q": "In my walk with Christ, is there someone that I can imitate and follow as an example?", "A": "Elisha became Elijah's assistant. He watched as God's chariots of fire took Elijah to heaven. (1 Kings 19:19-21). What an example Elijah was in the short time they were together! Elisha wanted to be like Elijah. He asked for a double portion of the Spirit that rested on Elijah. So, who can we follow? Who can we imitate? The best example is of course, Jesus. He modeled to His disciples how to serve God and others. In one example, Jesus even washed their feet to model to his disciples the importance of humility and service. He told them in John 13:35: \"I have given you an example to follow. Do as I have done to you.\" Yes, Jesus is the ultimate example for us to follow. He obeyed God perfectly while on earth. Though we can't be perfect; we must strive to follow Jesus' example with the help of the Holy Spirit. It is also important to spend time around those who faithfully follow Christ; just like Elisha hung out with Elijah! Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 11:1: \"And you should imitate me, just as I imitate Christ.\" Don't just follow anyone! Be careful to imitate only those who imitate Christ!", "Q": "When I face difficult situations, even though I can't see God, is He with me?", "A": "When Elisha's servant went outside, there were Syrian troops, horses, and chariots everywhere! He asked Elisha what they should do. Elisha told him not to be afraid; there were more on their side than the enemy had. Elisha prayed for his servant's eyes to be able to see what he was talking about. The servant looked up and saw that the hillside was filled with horses and chariots of fire! (2 Kings 6:15-17). Have you ever been afraid and thought you were alone? We all have. What could we see if God opened our spiritual eyes like Elisha's servant? God is always with us and He is for us! Romans 8:31 says, \"What shall we say about such wonderful things as these? If God is for us, who can ever be against us?\" As a follower of Jesus, you may find yourself pressured to do or say things that are contrary to God's Word. It isn't easy to be outnumbered! With God, we are never alone. Like Elijah and his servant, we outnumber whomever or whatever comes against us. When the soldiers came to arrest Jesus in the garden, Peter drew his sword and cut off a man's ear. Jesus rebuked Peter and said, \"Don't you realize that I could ask my Father for thousands of angels to protect us, and he would send them instantly?\" (Matthew 26:52-53) Jesus didn't submit to the guards because He was outnumbered or overpowered. He knew God was for Him and His angels were at His command. Jesus chose to give himself up to follow God's plan. Yes, God is for us! \"The Lord is for me, so I will have no fear. What can mere people do to me?\" (Psalm 118:6).", "Q": "Will God answer my prayer right away?", "A": "Mary and Martha sent a message to Jesus saying that their brother Lazarus was very sick. Lazarus was Jesus' dear friend. Jesus immediately stopped what He was doing to rush to his friends that He loved, right? No, Jesus chose to wait two more days before going to see them. Why would Jesus wait? John 11:4 says, \"But when Jesus heard about it He said, \"Lazarus's sickness will not end in death. No, it happened for the glory of God so that the Son of God will receive glory from this.\" There was a greater purpose to Lazarus' sickness, one that would bring glory to Jesus and God. Jesus knew that He would raise Lazarus from the dead; it didn't matter how many days had passed! Many people would believe in Jesus because of it! Jesus also knew that by waiting, even His own disciples' faith would be strengthened. (John 11:1-6, 14-15; 12:9-11). When Jesus arrived in Bethany, Lazarus had been dead for four days. Jesus told Martha that her brother would live again, and that is exactly what happened! Jesus told the people to roll the stone away from Lazarus' tomb. He then called for Lazarus to come out. He walked out of the tomb; Lazarus was alive! The people had thought Jesus was too late. He wasn't late - His timing was perfect! God's timing is not always the same as ours. He accomplished more things by not rushing to heal Lazarus when he was sick. It isn't easy to wait on the Lord; we want an answer - now! When we do trust and patiently wait on Him, we have a promise in Isaiah 40:31: \"But those who trust in the Lord will find new strength. They will soar high on wings like eagles. They will run and not grow weary. They will walk and not faint.\" God knows exactly what is going on at all times in our lives. Jesus wasn't surprised by Lazarus' sickness and death. He knew even before He received the message from Mary and Martha. He already had a plan for God's greater glory and would not hurried by others. Don't panic when it seems God is moving too slow or not according to your schedule! \"But you must not forget this one thing, dear friends: A day is like a thousand years to the Lord, and a thousand years is like a day (2 Peter 3:8). God does not look at time like we do. Yes, wait on the Lord, trust in His timing and greater purpose; His timing is always perfect!", "Q": "How important is listening to Jesus?", "A": "Martha was busy; very busy! Jesus and His disciples were visiting at her house. She was hard at work preparing a big dinner for them. After all, what could be more important than serving Jesus? Jesus was important to Mary too. But, instead of serving Jesus, she placed more importance on sitting at Jesus' feet to listen to Him teach. Martha was not happy and thought that Mary needed to get her priorities in order. In fact, Martha was so upset that she asked Jesus to tell Mary to get up and help her! Jesus had to agree that it was unfair for Mary to let Martha do all the work, right? Instead, Jesus told Mary to not be so worried about the meal. He said there was only one thing to be concerned about and Mary had made the right choice \" spending time listening to His words! That wasn't what Martha expected to hear! Mary hadn't made the wrong choice; Martha had! (Mark 10:38-42). Yes, we are to serve. Jesus set the example to serve one another and to serve God. Yet, Jesus also placed a priority on getting away from the crowds of people and spending time with God. In these times, He could speak and listen to His Father. He could be strengthened to do God's will. Service and busyness never replace personal time with God. The things of this world will not last, but the Word that God places in our heart can never be taken away from us! Sometimes busyness, even with good things, can interfere with our relationship with Jesus. It is important to keep balance in our lives between serving and sitting in God's presence. We must listen to the Holy Spirit inside us. If He is leading us to rest, pray, listen, or read God's Word \" we need to make the right choice as Mary did. \"There is only one thing worth being concerned about. Mary has discovered it, and it will not be taken away from her.\" (Luke 10:42). Jesus' Words apply to us today \" when Jesus speaks, we need to stop and listen!", "Q": "How does Jesus give me life here and forever?", "A": "Jesus talked with Martha about the resurrection of the dead. She believed in an end time resurrection, like many others did, including the Jewish leaders. However, she did not grasp that Jesus was not talking about the last days; He was talking about the present. Lazarus would rise again and live on the earth again! (John 11:23-27; Acts 23:8). \"The Father has life in himself, and he has granted that same life-giving power to his Son.\" (John 5:26). Because Jesus has life in Himself, He has the power, desire, and authority to give a rich and satisfying life to all who believe in Him. This life is available to us now and Him in heaven. Because Jesus rose from the dead, He conquered sin and death and became the resurrection for us all! Death has no power over us! (John 3:16; John 10:10). Everything we need in this life and the future exists in Him! Psalm 39:7 says, \"And so, Lord, where do I put my hope? My only hope is in you.\"", "Q": "How much faith do I need?", "A": "Jesus arrived in Bethany and Martha ran to meet Him. \"Martha said to Jesus, \"Lord, if only you had been here, my brother would not have died (John 11:21). Martha didn't understand why it took Jesus so long to arrive in Bethany. Even so, she expressed her faith that Jesus could have healed Lazarus before He died. Martha also revealed that she believed Jesus was the Messiah, the Son of God, Who was sent to earth by God. Mary, Martha's sister, voiced the same faith in Jesus' healing ability. \"When Mary arrived and saw Jesus, she fell at his feet and said, \"Lord, if only you had been here, my brother would not have died.\" (John 11:32). Both women believed Jesus could heal but not that He could raise Lazarus from the dead. Martha protested when Jesus told the people to roll aside the stone from Lazarus' tomb. Surely Lazarus body had begun to decompose and stink; certainly it was too late! Martha and Mary's faith was about to grow! Imagine their amazement and joy seeing Lazarus walk out of His tomb! (John 11:17-44). Yes, Jesus heals the living and gives life to the dead! Just like with Mary and Martha, Jesus honors the faith that we have. One time in the Bible, Jesus' disciples were unable to cast a demon out of a boy that was brought to them by his father. The disciples could not do it and asked Jesus why they were not successful. \"You don't have enough faith,\" Jesus told them. \"I tell you the truth, if you had faith even as small as a mustard seed, you could say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it would move. Nothing would be impossible.\" As we read and discover more about Jesus, our small faith will grow larger. We will begin to trust God for greater and greater things. In time we will believe that nothing is impossible with God! Colossians 2:7 says, \"Let your roots grow down into him, and let your lives be built on him. Then your faith will grow strong in the truth you were taught, and you will overflow with thankfulness.\"", "Q": "Why did Jesus weep?", "A": "Jesus was both God and man. Jesus said that He and His Father were one \" He was with God from the beginning of time. Jesus then came to earth as God's Son. As a man, Jesus was made in every respect like us so He could be our merciful High Priest. Jesus experienced the same struggles and temptation as we do yet He never sinned. (John 8:58; John 1:14; Philippians 2:6-7; Hebrews 2:17-18). As a man, Jesus didn't just see the pain and the sorrow of Martha and Mary, He felt it too! Jesus was deeply touched and troubled by everything that was happening. He wept at the loss of His dear friend. \"Wept\" in this verse means to burst into tears! (John 11:30-35). When we feel grief, sorrow, or pain, Jesus has experienced it. He comes to comfort us and give us peace. Paul wrote a letter to the church at Corinth. He talked about the comfort God brings through Christ. \"May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. All praise to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is our merciful Father and the source of all comfort. He comforts us in all our troubles so that we can comfort others. When they are troubled, we will be able to give them the same comfort God has given us.\" (2 Corinthians 1:2-4). Jesus comforts us so we might then comfort others. Let us always look for opportunities to share God's love, mercy, and peace with others at all times. \"Be happy with those who are happy, and weep with those who weep.\" (Romans 12:15).", "Q": "Do I need to honor my parents?", "A": "King David challenged Solomon to be a courageous man, obey God's commands, and follow all His ways. If he did this, Solomon would be successful in all he did. We read that Solomon loved the Lord and followed all the decrees of his father David. (1 Kings 2:1-3). Solomon was successful because of his obedience. He had more wisdom and wealth than any king on earth because of God's blessings upon his life. (1 Kings 3: 12-13). It is important for us to honor our parents; so important that God made it one of the Ten Commandments. Ephesians 6:1-3 says, \"Children, obey your parents because you belong to the Lord, for this is the right thing to do. \"Honor your father and mother.\" This is the first commandment with a promise: If you honor your father and mother, \"things will go well for you, and you will have a long life on the earth.\" As believers in Jesus, we belong to the Lord and must show honor to our parents. How do we do this? To honor someone means not only to obey, but also to show respect with our actions and words. To honor in a way that pleases the Lord, we must not only obey but also do it with a right attitude and heart. That means without grumbling and complaining! The Greek word for honor means \"to prize and value.\" Jesus modeled what it means to prize and value parents. When Jesus was twelve years old, He honored His parents, Joseph and Mary, when they found Him in the Temple. \"Then he returned to Nazareth with them and was obedient to them. And his mother stored all these things in her heart.\" (Luke 2:51). Jesus rebuked the religious leaders for their disregard of God's commandment to honor parents. They taught it was more important to follow church traditions than to show honor to their parents! (Matthew 15:3-6). Solomon wrote in the book of Proverbs about honoring your parents. \"My child, listen when your father corrects you. Don't neglect your mother's instruction. What you learn from them will crown you with grace and be a chain of honor around your neck.\" (Proverbs 3:8-9). When we honor our parents, listening and obeying what they say, we will receive wisdom, grace, and honor!", "Q": "I am young, do I need to live for God now?", "A": "David knew it was time for him to leave the earth as every human being must do. He made sure that he had reminded his son Solomon to give priority to following God's ways. David knew that if Solomon faithfully followed God, he would enjoy God's blessings in his life no matter where he went or what he did. When we are young, it may seem like this world will last forever. As we grow older, we begin to realize that time is very short compared to eternity. Our thoughts and plans should stretch beyond this earth! Hebrews 13:14 says, \"For this world is not our permanent home; we are looking forward to a home yet to come.\" It is so easy to focus on our needs and wants each day rather than God's will for our lives now and beyond. 1 John 2:17 says, \"And this world is fading away, along with everything that people crave. But anyone who does what pleases God will live forever.\" Doesn't it make sense to focus on what will last forever? The earth is not our permanent home; this life will not last. The things of God are forever while the things of this earth are temporary. James 4:14 reminds us of this reality. \"How do you know what your life will be like tomorrow? Your life is like the morning fog--it's here a little while, then it's gone.\" Time is short and we must make the most of it. There is nothing wrong with pursuing success and possessions on this earth. But, it cannot be our primary focus. Seek God for His purpose for your life and pursue it with all you've got - today! Jesus said: \"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.\" (Matthew 6:19-21). Time is short, pursue the things of God that will last forever!", "Q": "Do I need to love others?", "A": "God came to Solomon in a dream and told Solomon he could have anything he wanted. Solomon did not selfishly ask for riches and fame. Solomon said, \"Give me an understanding heart so that I can govern your people well and know the difference between right and wrong. For who by himself is able to govern this great people of yours?\" (1 Kings 3:9). Solomon's prayer was to receive God's help to rule God's people. He wanted to make good decisions and judge according to God's Word and will. Solomon loved and cared for God's people. He cared enough to make this request above anything else he could have asked for! To truly love God, we must also love His people. There are no exceptions! 1 John 4:7-8 says, \"Dear friends, let us continue to love one another, for love comes from God. Anyone who loves is a child of God and knows God. But anyone who does not love does not know God, for God is love.\" God is not just filled with love; He IS love; the source of love! Think of what these verses say - If we don't love one another, we do not know God! This Passage makes it clear that loving God and others go hand and hand. Jesus replied, \"'you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind.' This is the first and greatest commandment. A second is equally important: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'\" (Matthew 22:37-39). How important is it to love God and others? Jesus said it was the second most important commandment and just as important as the first commandment! God is love; so since we are made in His image, we were created to love too! (1 John 4:16; Genesis 1:27).", "Q": "Does God give wisdom to us?", "A": "The king's wise men told him that knowing his dream was impossible. They said only their (false) gods could tell him the dream and the meaning (Daniel 2:10-11). Daniel and his friends asked the one true God for the secret information and God revealed it to them (Daniel 2:17-19). Yes, just as God answered Daniel, He desires to fill us with wisdom too! James 1:5 tells us, \"If you need wisdom, ask our generous God, and he will give it to you. He will not rebuke you for asking.\" We should never be afraid to ask God; He wants to fill us with wisdom - not just a small amount, but generously! Proverbs 2:6 says, \"For the LORD grants wisdom; From his mouth come knowledge and understanding.\" God will reveal great and powerful things to us that we could not possibly know on our own. All we need to do is ask!", "Q": "Does God equip us to do His work?", "A": "He sure does! God not only gives us the opportunity to do His work on earth - He gives us what we need to do it! God gave Daniel and his three friends special abilities. Daniel 1:17 says, \"God gave these four young men an unusual aptitude for understanding every aspect of literature and wisdom. And God gave Daniel the special ability to interpret the meanings of visions and dreams..\" These men needed wisdom and understanding to be advisor's to the king. The special ability that God gave to Daniel came in very handy; in fact, you could say it was a lifesaver! Daniel and his friends not only escaped death, they were promoted! Daniel's ability was not natural ability; it was God given ability (Daniel 2:26-27). Most of us have felt at times they just didn't have what they needed to something important for God. That is simply not true. We all have been given gifts and abilities to serve! 1 Peter 4:10 (CEV) says, \" Each of you has been blessed with one of God's many wonderful gifts to be used in the service of others. So use your gift well.\" Yes, just like God gifted Daniel to do His work, God gives us what we need to do His work too. Is there a limit to what we can do? No! Philippians 4:13 says, \"For I can do everything through Christ, who gives me strength.\"", "Q": "God answered our prayer, what now?", "A": "Have you ever prayed to God for something important and then forgot to thank Him for the answer? Yes, it has probably happened to all of us. Daniel and his friends had an urgent prayer that they needed God to answer quickly! The king was ready to execute them if God didn't answer their prayer. Daniel 2:19 says, \"That night the secret was revealed to Daniel in a vision. Then Daniel praised the God of heaven.\" Daniel 2:23 says, \"I thank and praise you, God of my ancestors, for you have given me wisdom and strength.\" Prayer and thanksgiving was Daniel's immediate response to God for His answer. What should our response be to God when He answers our prayers? Praise and thanksgiving! Ephesians 5:20 tells us, \"And give thanks for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.\"", "Q": "Does God ever leave us?", "A": "Daniel was a prisoner in Babylon. (Daniel 1:3). God had not abandoned Daniel and his three friends. Even in Babylon, God blessed Daniel and his three friends with understanding, wisdom, and special abilities. God also heard and answered their prayers (Daniel 1:17; 2:23). We must remember that God is with us no matter where we go or what we do. That is a promise God gave to His children! (Psalm 139:7-10). Deuteronomy 31:8 says, \"Do not be afraid or discouraged, for the LORD will personally go ahead of you. He will be with you; he will neither fail you nor abandon you.\" Whenever we feel afraid, lonely, or discouraged we can know that God is with us and hears us when we speak to Him.", "Q": "Does God reward humility?", "A": "Daniel and his friends were taken captive and lived in Babylon. They faithfully served the king as they were educated in the language and literature of Babylon (Daniel 1:3-4). God filled them with wisdom and understanding. Daniel did not let all of his education and special abilities fill him with pride. He humbly gave credit to God as he revealed the meaning of the king's dream to him. No other wise men were able to do this. The king then promoted Daniel and his three friends to high positions in his government. Daniel 2:48-49 says, \"Then the king appointed Daniel to a high position and gave him many valuable gifts. He made Daniel ruler over the whole province of Babylon, as well as chief over all his wise men. At Daniel's request, the king appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to be in charge of all the affairs of the province of Babylon, while Daniel remained in the king's court.\" Yes, humble service pleases and honors God. In the proper time, we will be rewarded. 1 Peter 5:6 says, \"So humble yourselves under the mighty power of God, and at the right time he will lift you up in honor.\" Jesus spoke about pride and humility too. Luke 14:11 says, \"For those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.\" Daniel would not take credit for his wisdom. Daniel humbly gave God the glory (Daniel 2:28-30). When we humbly serve God, He will exalt us in the proper time.", "Q": "How should we pray?", "A": "How do we even know what God's will is? The answer is reading the Bible, listening to His Spirit, and by prayer. This is how we learn God's heart and what He desires. When Peter went to the rooftop to pray, it was not about how he could take the Gospel to the Gentile people! However, the key here is that Peter did pray! Peter took time in the middle of the day to talk to God. God was then able to show Peter His will in a vision. This changed Peter's beliefs about the Gentile people (Acts 10:28). Jesus' disciples asked Him how they should pray. Jesus told them to pray that God's will would be done on earth as it is in heaven (Matthew 6:10). That means that God's will would be done without resistance and to completion - every time! God has given every believer the Holy Spirit to help us to pray in harmony with His will (Romans 8:26-27). When we pray, we should ask God to show us what He wants to do rather than telling Him what we think He should do. When we pray this way, we can walk in step with His will for our lives. In this way, God's will can be accomplished on earth.", "Q": "How do we obey God without total understanding?", "A": "God gave Peter an amazing, unexpected vision as he prayed on the rooftop. This vision was both puzzling and troubling to Peter. What did all of this mean this mean to him? It completely came against the Jewish law he followed and turned his thinking upside down about the Gentiles. However, none of this stopped Peter from obeying God by faith. There are many examples in the Bible, such as Noah, Moses, Joshua, and Abraham that obeyed God by faith even when they didn't understand (Hebrews 11). Proverbs 3:5 says, \"Trust in the LORD with all your heart; do not depend on your own understanding.\" Peter trusted and obeyed God more than his own understanding. Peter did not have all the answers to his questions before he began his journey to meet Cornelius. He obeyed by faith and then God opened his understanding.", "Q": "Is God's word alive?", "A": "Even as Peter was speaking, the people in Cornelius' house received it and God poured out the Holy Spirit on them (Acts 10:44-48). Peter's Jewish friends were amazed to hear the Gentiles praising God in different languages. Afterwards, the new believers were baptized in water. These powerful results all came through the word of God working in the Gentile's heart as Peter spoke. God's word is the same today as in Peter's day. The word of God is alive and powerful and works inside of all who hear it (Hebrews 4:12). 1 Peter 1:23 says, \"For you have been born again, but not to a life that will quickly end. Your new life will last forever because it comes from the eternal, living word of God.\" Yes, God calls us to speak His word to others and He will then bring results. Isaiah 55:11 God says, \"It is the same with my word. I send it out, and it always produces fruit. It will accomplish all I want it to, it will prosper everywhere I send it.\"", "Q": "Does God have favorites?", "A": "No, God does not have favorites. God revealed to Peter that He did not want Peter to call the Gentiles unclean or view them as unworthy of His love and favor. Acts 10:34-35 says, \"Then Peter replied, \"I see very clearly that God shows no favoritism. In every nation he accepts those who fear him and do what is right.\" God accepts everyone in the same way. Do you hold prejudice feelings toward certain people? Are their people that you feel are not worthy of God's favor and love? God is not pleased when we see ourselves as better or superior to others. Romans 2:10-11 says, \"But there will be glory and honor and peace from God for all who do good for the Jew first and also for the Gentile. For God does not show favoritism.\" There are no favorites in God's eyes; so let us always see others through His eyes.", "Q": "What is the truth?", "A": "When Peter returned to Jerusalem he was criticized by the apostles and other believers for going into Cornelius' house and eating with them! Peter explained to them all that had happened. He told them how God had spoken to him and Cornelius in separate visions. He explained how God poured out His Spirit on them just as God had done with the Jews. Acts 11:18 says, \"When the others heard this, they stopped objecting and began praising God. They said, \"We can see that God has also given the Gentiles the privilege of repenting of their sins and receiving eternal life.\" The Holy Spirit revealed truth to the believers in Jerusalem just as He had revealed to Peter earlier! This turned their criticism and objections into praise (Acts 11:1-18). Jesus said, \"When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth\" (John 16:13a). Praise God, as believers in Jesus, we have the Holy Spirit living inside of us that will reveal all truth!", "Q": "How can you always be joyful?", "A": "Paul and Silas had been arrested, beaten, and thrown into prison. Their feet were chained and placed in stocks so they couldn't move. How could things be worse? (Acts 16:22-24). So, did the other prisoners hear them blame God and complain? No! Paul and Silas were full of joy; they prayed and sang praises to God around midnight! How can that be? Paul and Silas' joy was not based on their outward circumstances, but deep within them. The world cannot give this kind of joy - only having Jesus in your heart can! This joy is produced by the Holy Spirit that lives inside of every believer (Galatians 5:22). The Bible says that it is God's will that we always be full of joy, to pray always and be thankful in all circumstances (1 Thessalonians 6:16-18). When we do this - we reflect the, peace, love and hope of our amazing God to others. When Peter and Silas sang to God, the other prisoners in the jail listened (Acts 16:25). As followers of Jesus, let the joy of the Lord be seen no matter what the circumstances! 2 Corinthians 6:10 says, \"Our hearts ache, but we always have joy. We are poor, but we give spiritual riches to others. We own nothing, and yet we have everything.\" The world doesn't give us our joy, and the world cannot take it way!", "Q": "Does God guide us?", "A": "Paul and Silas attempted to go to several countries on their missionary journey. However, the Holy Spirit did not allow them to enter certain areas. God then spoke to Paul in a vision instructing him to go to Macedonia in the country of Greece. Paul and Silas immediately boarded a boat to sail there. Paul and Silas listened to the Holy Spirit and followed God's plan rather than their own (Acts 16:6-10). As followers of Christ, God's Spirit lives in us. The Holy Spirit will guide us, as He did Paul and Silas, if we are willing to follow His voice. Galatians 5:25, says, \"Since we are living by the Spirit, let us follow the Spirit's leading in every part of our lives.\" As with Paul, the Holy Spirit will lead us to people that need to hear the Good News of Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit will also illuminate God's word and give us wisdom and understanding to make right choices and decisions. Psalm 119:105 says, \"Your word is a lamp to guide my feet and a light for my path.\" Jesus called His followers sheep. Sheep need a shepherd to care for them, to lead, and to protect them. Jesus said in John 10:27, \"My sheep listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me.\" Yes, God's Spirit will guide us - will we follow?", "Q": "Can we be good examples?", "A": "The prisoners in the jail heard Paul and Silas praying and singing hymns to God (Acts 16:25). These sounds were very unusual sounds to be heard in a prison! What a testimony to God! No doubt, this made an impact on the all who listened! The jailer later came to Christ, along with his entire family. As followers of Christ, we reflect God in our words, attitudes and actions. Paul and Silas had been accused of wrongdoing by the fortune-teller's masters and an angry mob. It would have been easy to have been bitter and angry, yet they chose to honor God and be a bright light shining in a dark place. 1 Peter 2:12 says, \"Be careful to live properly among your unbelieving neighbors. Then even if they accuse you of doing wrong, they will see your honorable behavior, and they will give honor to God when he judges the world.\" Are others attracted to Christ by our daily walk? Paul lived his life as such an example that others could follow to know Christ. In his letter to the Philippians, Paul wrote, \"Keep putting into practice all you learned and received from me--everything you heard from me and saw me doing. Then the God of peace will be with you.\" (Philippians 4:9) Do we reflect God's peace and love in our lives each day? It is never too early to be a Christ-like example to others in our daily walk. The Apostle Paul encouraged Timothy to be an example to others even at a young age; he wrote, \"Don't let anyone think less of you because you are young. Be an example to all believers in what you say, in the way you live, in your love, your faith, and your purity (1 Timothy 4:12). Let us always strive to be an example others can follow to Christ!\"", "Q": "How are we saved?", "A": "Following the miraculous earthquake that shook the foundation of the prison, the trembling jailer fell down before Paul and Silas. He asked, \"what he must do to be saved? (Acts 16:25-29). They replied, \"Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, along with everyone in your household.\" (Acts 10:31). Paul and Silas shared the word of the Lord with the jailer and his family that night. They believed, were saved, and even baptized in water - all after midnight! Is it the same today? Is it really that simple? Romans 10:9 says, \"If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.\" God's word doesn't change - there is salvation today for all who believe in Jesus! Acts 4:12 tells us, \"There is salvation in no one else! God has given no other name under heaven by which we must be saved.\" God loved us so much that He provided a way for us to have our sins forgiven and spend eternity with Him in heaven. John 3:16 says, \"For God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.\"", "Q": "What can I sing to God about?", "A": "Paul and Silas prayed and sang to God as they sat, chained in a jail cell, their feet in stocks (Acts 16:24-25). What could they possibly have been singing about? They sang because they served the Almighty God. Regardless of where they were or what had happened - God was still God and His name alone was worthy of praise! Psalm 68:4 tells us, \"Sing praises to God and to his name! Sing loud praises to him who rides the clouds. His name is the LORD--rejoice in his presence!\" We often sing praises to God for something good that has happened in our lives - and we absolutely should! However, as this verse says, we also need to sing loud praises to Him who rides the clouds, He is above all and His name is the Lord! We can rejoice that we may enter and stay in His mighty presence! Psalm 145:3, \"Great is the LORD! He is most worthy of praise! No one can measure his greatness.\" We don't have to wait to sing praises to to God! He is great beyond measure and worthy of our praise - always! Regardless of any circumstance, He is still God!", "Q": "Are God's promises still valid?", "A": "King David was forbidden by God to build the Temple. However, God made a promise to him that Solomon would sit on his throne and build the Temple. Solomon praised God in front of all of the people of his kingdom at the Temple dedication for keeping His promise that He had made to King David. Solomon also reminded the people of the tablets that were contained in the Ark. The tablets contained the covenant or promises that the Lord made with their ancestors that God brought out of Egypt. (1 Kings 8:20-21). The Bible is filled with God's promises to His people \" that includes us! We can trust God because He is faithful to do everything He has spoken. Psalm 145:13 says, \"For your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. You rule throughout all generations. The LORD always keeps his promises; he is gracious in all he does.\"", "Q": "Do I need to understand before I obey God?", "A": "It is easier to obey when you understand the reason, right? But, what if you don't? Elijah obeyed God even when he didn't understand. He obeyed God and declared to King Ahab that a drought would come and last for years. Then he hid by a brook and trusted God to bring him food by ravens! Elijah then obeyed God and traveled to Zarephath to live with a widow who would feed him. Elijah could not have understood what all of this meant - yet he obeyed God (1 Kings 17:1-10). Because of Elijah's obedience, God was able to miraculously provide for Elijah, a widow, and her son. Through all of this, the widow and her son experienced the provision and power of the one true God! Sometimes we will understand why we must obey. However, there will be times when we must obey even when we don't understand. God is always working in our lives and the lives of others as part of His grand plan! Romans 8:28 tells us, \"And we know that God causes everything to work together for the good of those who love God and are called according to his purpose for them.\" God's ways and thoughts are far beyond what we can imagine or understand; simply trust and obey! (Isaiah 55:9).", "Q": "Why did the ravens obey God?", "A": "Why did the ravens do as God commanded? God is the creator of all things; the ruler of everything in heaven and earth \" not just people! (Psalm 103:19). There are countless examples in the Bible demonstrating this. Psalm 115:3 says, \"Our God is in the heavens, and he does as he wishes.\" God wished to provide meat to Elijah by ravens, and the ravens obeyed God's command (1 KIngs 17:4-6). God wished to give the Israelites quail to eat in the wilderness and it happened. God sent a wind to bring the quail from the sea to the wilderness. Then, they fell from the sky around their camp (Numbers 11:31). Before the flood, God brought pairs of every animal species to enter the ark at the proper time (Genesis 6:20). This was a miraculous act that Noah could not have accomplished by himself. The disciples were in awe that Jesus could calm the storm. \" The disciples were terrified and amazed. \"Who is this man?\" they asked each other. \"When he gives a command, even the wind and waves obey him!\" (Luke 8:25). Yes, all of creation must obey what God commands. Our loving God has no boundaries or limitations; what He wills, He does! Even the widow in Zarephath most likely worshiped idols instead of God, yet, God told Elijah he had instructed the widow to feed him, and she obeyed! (1 Kings 17:8). Yes, all of creation hears and must submit to God's command! Psalm 135:6 says, \"The LORD does whatever pleases him throughout all heaven and earth, and on the seas and in their depths.\"", "Q": "How can I be generous when I have little?", "A": "God told Elijah to go to Zarephath where a widow would feed him. The widow only had enough flour and oil to make one last meal and then she and her son would die! Yet, she obeyed Elijah's word from the Lord by faith. She generously gave all that she had! God kept His promise; the flour and oil never ran out (1 Kings 17: 12-15). Many times we think of giving what is extra or left over. Yet, God wants us to trust Him and give even when we have little. Jesus told a story about people who put large amounts of money in the Temple offering. Jesus took notice of one widow who only gave two small coins. \"Jesus called his disciples to him and said, \"I tell you the truth, this poor widow has given more than all the others who are making contributions. For they gave a tiny part of their surplus, but she, poor as she is, has given everything she had to live on.\" (Mark 12:43-44). Jesus saw that the widow gave not out of her surplus, but instead, out of her need; she gave all she had! She was more generous than the wealthy people who gave large offerings! Proverbs 11:25 says, \" The generous will prosper; those who refresh others will themselves be refreshed.\" Generous giving isn't always based on the amount! God looks on the heart of each giver. He rewards generosity, even if it is only two coins, or a slice of bread! \"You must each decide in your heart how much to give. And don't give reluctantly or in response to pressure. \"For God loves a person who gives cheerfully.\" (2 Corinthians 9:7).", "Q": "Can God heal sickness and death?", "A": "The widow's son became sick and died. Elijah, cried out to God and asked Him to let the child's life return. God heard Elijah's prayer and the boy lived! (1 Kings 17:21-23). Elijah did not have the power to heal the boy; it was God's power working through him. While Jesus was on earth, He healed every kind of disease and illness and raised people from the dead (Matthew 9:35). Before Jesus left the earth, He gave His disciples the same power and authority to cast out evil spirits and to heal every kind of disease and illness (Matthew 10:1). That means, as followers of Jesus, we also have been given that same power and authority to defeat the devil and to heal sickness! The devil thought that He had defeated Jesus by crucifying Jesus on the cross. But, God raised Jesus back to life! Death had no power over Him! \"The Spirit of God, who raised Jesus from the dead, lives in you. And just as God raised Christ Jesus from the dead, he will give life to your mortal bodies by this same Spirit living within you.\" (Romans 8:11). God did not stop there, He also gave us victory over something else very powerful and deadly \" sin! \"But thank God! He gives us victory over sin and death through our Lord Jesus Christ.\" (1 Corinthians 15:57).", "Q": "Who does God show mercy to?", "A": "God doesn't show mercy only to people who serve Him, God desires to show mercy to all people. He does this so they may come to know Him! God showed mercy to the widow in the city of Sidon. This area was known for their worship of the false god, Baal (1 Kings 16:31-33). The widow referred to God as Elijah's God, not her god (1 Kings 17:12). God sent His prophet to rescue the widow and her son from death, to provide for her needs, and to give them hope (1 Kings 17:12,16,23). Jesus spoke about this significant act of mercy in Luke 4:25-26: \"In truth, I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land, and Elijah was sent to none of them but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.\" By Elijah's obedience, the widow saw that God was alive and active in people's lives. \"Then the woman told Elijah, \"Now I know for sure that you are a man of God, and that the LORD truly speaks through you.\" (1 Kings 17:24). Peter understood God's mercy and love for all people when God sent him to bring the Gospel of Jesus to a Gentile's house. \"Then Peter replied, \"I see very clearly that God shows no favoritism. In every nation he accepts those who fear him and do what is right.\" (Acts 10:34-35). God is merciful and full of love, He desires that all people will come to know him! (1 Timothy 2:4)", "Q": "What is God's most valuable gift to us?", "A": "Jesus sent seventy\"two disciples out to prepare the way in the towns and places He planned to visit. When they return to Jesus, they were excited and full of joy at their results. What was the source of their excitement? \"When the seventy-two disciples returned, they joyfully reported to him, \"Lord, even the demons obey us when we use your name!\" (Luke 10:17). It is exciting to walk in the power and authority of Jesus! However, Jesus did not want them to place a priority on signs and wonders such as this. \"Yes,\" he told them, \"I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning! Look, I have given you authority over all the power of the enemy, and you can walk among snakes and scorpions and crush them. Nothing will injure you. But don't rejoice because evil spirits obey you; rejoice because your names are registered in heaven.\" (Luke 10:18-20). Jesus did not want them to lose sight of the most important source of joy \" their salvation! Salvation is the most precious and valuable gift we receive from God. Our sins are forgiven \" wiped clean! Our relationship with God is restored and we will live with Jesus forever in heaven! When our joy is centered on the gift of salvation, we will be motivated to share the Gospel message with others so they can experience it too! 1 Peter 1:3-4 says: \"All praise to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It is by his great mercy that we have been born again, because God raised Jesus Christ from the dead. Now we live with great expectation, and we have a priceless inheritance an inheritance that is kept in heaven for you, pure and undefiled, beyond the reach of change and decay.\" As followers of Christ, we should never allow ourselves to lose the joy of our salvation. We must never place a higher importance on signs and wonders as the disciples did! We also must be on guard not to pursue happiness on this earth above our relationship with God. In Psalm 51:12, David asked God to restore to him the joy of his salvation after he had fallen into sin. \"Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and make me willing to obey you.\" Thank God daily for His precious gift of salvation that Jesus paid for with His own life! When we walk in the joy of our salvation, others will be drawn to Christ through our lives and our testimony!", "Q": "How should we pray?", "A": "Prayer is simply having a two way conversation with God; speaking and listening. But, what is the most effective way to pray? Once Jesus was in a certain place praying. As he finished, one of his disciples asked Him to teach them how to pray. Jesus gave His disciples a prayer model to use called \"The Lord's Prayer\". Jesus said, \"Pray like this: Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy. May your Kingdom come soon. May your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. Give us today the food we need, and forgive us our sins, as we have forgiven those who sin against us. And don't let us yield to temptation, but rescue us from the evil one.\" (Matthew 6:9-13; Luke 11:2-4). Jesus example shows us that prayer is far more than just telling God what we want and need. Prayer begins with worship; acknowledging who He is \" a holy God above heaven and earth. In doing this we build our faith understanding that He has power over everything and everyone; nothing is impossible for Him! We are to pray for God's will; that His purpose and plan are accomplished on this earth. Notice how the beginning of prayer is focused on God- not us! Then we are to pray for what we need, including forgiveness as we forgive others! We also are to ask God's help and protection from temptation and the evil one- Satan. This is how Jesus teaches us to pray! In Matthew 6:5-6, Jesus also warns us to not make a show of our prayers. This is a humble, intimately private time between God and us. Jesus also instructs us to be persistent in our prayers and to never give up. (Luke 11:9-10; Luke 18:1-14). Jesus tells us to pray according to His will and we will have whatever we ask! (1 John 5:14). When we pray in Jesus' name and according to His will, Jesus will answer our prayer and bring glory to God! (John 14:13). Jesus sent the Holy Spirit to be our helper, guide, and teacher. The Holy Spirit will help us to pray effectively and according to God's will. \"And the Holy Spirit helps us in our weakness. For example, we don't know what God wants us to pray for. But the Holy Spirit prays for us with groanings that cannot be expressed in words. And the Father who knows all hearts knows what the Spirit is saying, for the Spirit pleads for us believers in harmony with God's own will. (Romans 8:26-27). When we come before God with a humble, sincere heart, and seek His will, He will hear and answer us!", "Q": "How can I pray to further the Gospel?", "A": "God's desire is for all men to repent, know the truth, and be saved. (1 Timothy 2:4; 2 Peter 3:9). To accomplish this end, Jesus issued The Great Commission to His disciples, including us! \"Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach these new disciples to obey all the commands I have given you. And be sure of this: I am with you always, even to the end of the age.\" (Matthew 28:19-20). The problem is that not all people are willing to go! This was an issue in Jesus' day and is still the case today. Jesus told His disciples to pray for more workers who were willing to work in God's harvest. Luke 10:1-2 says, \"The Lord now chose seventy-two other disciples and sent them ahead in pairs to all the towns and places he planned to visit. These were his instructions to them: \"The harvest is great, but the workers are few. So pray to the Lord who is in charge of the harvest; ask him to send more workers into his fields.\" As believers, it is of utmost importance to pray for workers to spread the Gospel and to make disciples. In John 4:35-38, Jesus tells His disciples exactly what God's harvest is. \"You know the saying, 'Four months between planting and harvest.' But I say, wake up and look around. The fields are already ripe for harvest. The harvesters are paid good wages, and the fruit they harvest is people brought to eternal life. What joy awaits both the planter and the harvester alike! You know the saying, 'One plants and another harvests.' And it's true. I sent you to harvest where you didn't plant; others had already done the work, and now you will get to gather the harvest.\" God's harvest is people! He asks us to participate in His harvest by sharing the Gospel and praying for others to do His work too! All God needs are workers! Romans 10:13-15 says: For \"Everyone who calls on the name of the LORD will be saved.\" But how can they call on him to save them unless they believe in him? And how can they believe in him if they have never heard about him? And how can they hear about him unless someone tells them? And how will anyone go and tell them without being sent? That is why the Scriptures say, \"How beautiful are the feet of messengers who bring good news!\" What a privilege we have to participate in God's harvest! No matter what part we play; God's joy and blessings awaits us for participating!", "Q": "Do we have authority and power as a believer?", "A": "It is important for us to understand that Jesus' authority is given to Him by God not man. His authority never ends and is not limited. \"Jesus came and told his disciples, \"I have been given all authority in heaven and on earth. Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach these new disciples to obey all the commands I have given you. And be sure of this: I am with you always, even to the end of the age.\" (Matthew 28:18-20) The disciples were sent out by Jesus and given His authority to share the Gospel, baptize and make disciples of new believers. Jesus promised to always be with them until the end of the earth. Matthew 10:1 says, \"Jesus called His twelve disciples together and gave them authority to cast out evil spirits and to heal every kind of disease and illness.\" The question is, does this apply to us today or what is just for believers in Jesus' day? Hebrews 13:8 says: \"Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.\" If Jesus gave authority to believers then, He still gives authority to us now! In John 14:12-14 Jesus says, \"I tell you the truth, anyone who believes in me will do the same works I have done, and even greater works, because I am going to be with the Father. You can ask for anything in my name, and I will do it, so that the Son can bring glory to the Father. Yes, ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it! As believers in Him, we will do even greater, in other words, more works, because He is in heaven to help us. Jesus' work on earth was limited when He was a man to where He was present. More work was accomplished by His authority as His disciples were sent out. Imagine now, with Jesus in Heaven, how much greater the scope of His works can be. When we ask in His name, or by the authority of His name, according to His will, He will grant our request! How powerful is our authority in Christ? Luke 10:19 says, \"Look, I have given you authority over all the power of the enemy, and you can walk among snakes and scorpions and crush them. Nothing will injure you.\" Believers need to understand and operate under Jesus' authority. When we do, the enemy cannot stand against us and God's will can be accomplished!", "Q": "Does it matter what I say about others?", "A": "The people did not want to hear Jeremiah's message to turn from their evil ways. So they came up with a plot to silence him and give him a bad name (Jeremiah 18:11). God forbids spreading rumors, gossip, or untruths about others in the ninth commandment. Exodus 20:16 says, \"You must not testify falsely against your neighbors.\" Words are powerful; they can wound and damage reputations. This is what the people wanted to do to Jeremiah. If they could damage his reputation, no one would trust him and follow his instructions. The Bible warns us to stay away from those who spread rumors or gossip. \"A gossip goes around telling secrets, so don't hang around with chatterers.\" (Proverbs 20:19). Instead, the Bible tells us to look for ways to achieve peace and to maintain it. God's word even connects a long and prosperous life with the words we speak! \"(12) Does anyone want to live a life that is long and prosperous? (13) Then keep your tongue from speaking evil and your lips from telling lies! (14) Turn away from evil and do good. Search for peace, and work to maintain it. Then keep your tongue from speaking evil and your lips from telling lies!\" (Psalm 34: 12-14). Yes, it is harmful to spread lies and unkind things about others. God is not pleased with this kind of behavior. What comes from our mouths is important to God and so it must be important to us. Our words actually represent the condition of our heart!. \"A good person produces good things from the treasury of a good heart, and an evil person produces evil things from the treasury of an evil heart. What you say flows from what is in your heart.\"(Luke 6:45).", "Q": "Is it wrong to resist change in my life?", "A": "God's people did not want to change their ways. They refused to listen to Jeremiah who called them to repent. They liked how they were living even though they ignored God's laws. \"But the people replied, \"Don't waste your breath. We will continue to live as we want to, stubbornly following our own evil desires.\" (Jeremiah 18:12). This made God very angry and brought His judgment against them. Jeremiah 19:15 says, \"This is what the Lord of Heaven's Armies, the God of Israel, says: 'I will bring disaster upon this city and its surrounding towns as I promised, because you have stubbornly refused to listen to me.'\" Most of us have chosen to be stubborn at some time in our lives; refusing to do something or to stop something we are doing! This is not pleasing to God. Stubbornness is actually resisting the Holy Spirit's correction and direction (Acts 7:51). It causes us to do our will instead of God's will. How dangerous is stubbornness? The Bible considers stubbornness the same as worshiping idols! (1 Samuel 15:23). Stubbornness is rooted in pride; believing that we know what is best. If we instead choose to humble ourselves before God, He will bless our lives. We can avoid what is harmful to us and what hinders us from growing closer to Him. Proverbs 28:14 says, \"Blessed are those who fear to do wrong, but the stubborn are headed for serious trouble.\"", "Q": "Do I always need to do what is right and stand for God?", "A": "Jeremiah was called by God when he was young to speak to God's people and tell them to turn from their evil ways. They had left God and His commandments, and chosen instead to worship idols. Jeremiah was not a popular person because of God's message that he delivered. God told Jeremiah that he would stand against the whole land, including kings, officials, priests and the people of Judah! (Jeremiah 1:18-19). Those are not good odds are they? God sent Jeremiah to tell the people the right thing to do. He was one voice against an entire nation! We too are called by God to stand up for what is right \" even with the odds against us. 1 Corinthians 16:13 says, \"Be on guard. Stand firm in the faith. Be courageous. Be strong.\" It isn't easy to do what is right when it seems everyone around you is doing what is wrong! When we face difficult times, we must ask God's Spirit to guide us and lean on His power to strengthen us. \"So we can say with confidence, \"The Lord is my helper, so I will have no fear. What can mere people do to me?\" (Hebrews 13:6). We cannot stand on our own power and in our own strength. We need the strength of God's Spirit inside us to overcome the pressures, the temptations, and the evil of this world. Paul prayed for the Ephesian people to have this kind of strength. \"I pray that from his glorious, unlimited resources he will empower you with inner strength through his Spirit.\" (Ephesians 3:16). With God's unlimited strength on the inside, we can stand for Him on the outside - no matter what!", "Q": "How can I draw closer to God?", "A": "God, through His prophet Jeremiah, repeatedly called people to repentance; to turn from their evil ways and return to Him (Jeremiah 25:25). Yes, Heaven rejoices when a sinner comes to God - but it doesn't stop there! To maintain a relationship with God and grow closer to Him, we not only must turn to Him, but also turn away from evil! God said \"But my people would not listen to me. They kept doing whatever they wanted, following the stubborn desires of their evil hearts. They went backward instead of forward.\" (Jeremiah 7:24). We don't want to go backwards! We want to go forward with God and to grow more like Christ! In the days of Jeremiah, God did not want to punish His people. He desired that they confess their sins and turn to Him, so they might receive His mercy and forgiveness. It is the same for us today. God wants us to be honest with Him, admit our sins, and turn away from evil so we might receive His forgiveness and mercy! \"People who conceal their sins will not prosper, but if they confess and turn from them, they will receive mercy.\" (Proverbs 28:13). The people in Jeremiah's time believed that the Temple protected them. They could do as they pleased and God would be happy and bless them. Jeremiah exposed their false security. (Jeremiah 7: 1-7). The devil may try to deceive us in this way today. He wants us to believe that as long as we go to church, we are safe and can live as we choose. Proverbs 3:7 tells us that is not true. \"Don't be impressed with your own wisdom. Instead, fear the Lord and turn away from evil.\"", "Q": "Am I too young to do God's work?", "A": "God called Jeremiah when he was a young man to bring a message of repentance to a nation that had turned to evil. Jeremiah objected and said that he was too young for the job! \"O Sovereign Lord,\". I said, \"I can't speak for you! I'm too young!\" God did not agree with Jeremiah! \"The Lord replied, \"Don't say, 'I'm too young,' for you must go wherever I send you and say whatever I tell you. And don't be afraid of the people, for I will be with you and will protect you. I, the Lord, have spoken!\" (Jeremiah 1:1-8). Have you ever thought you were too young to do something for God? No one is ever too young or too old to do God's work. You see, it isn't about us \" it's all about God! God created and breathed life into us. He gives us all of our ability. We are just empty vessels ready for His use! (2 Timothy 2:21). Mary was a young girl when Gabriel brought the news that she would give birth to Jesus. Samuel, was only a boy, when he faithfully served the Lord in the Temple (1 Samuel 2:18). Josiah was eight years old when he became king of Judah and ruled for thirty-one years (2 Kings 22:1). There are many examples of young girls and boys who were chosen by God to do amazing things for Him. Paul wrote a letter to encourage Timothy, his young friend and faithful helper, to be strong and lead others by example. \"Teach these things and insist that everyone learn them. Don't let anyone think less of you because you are young. Be an example to all believers in what you say, in the way you live, in your love, your faith, and your purity.\" (1 Timothy 4:11-12). This was not only true for people in the Bible. It is also true for us today. Acts 2:17 says, \"In the last days,' God says, 'I will pour out my Spirit upon all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams.\" You see, it isn't about our ability and experience; it is about our willingness to allow God's Spirit to work in us \" no matter how young or old we are!", "Q": "What is the purpose of the Gospel?", "A": "What exactly is the Gospel that God sends us to share with others? Is it just an interesting story about someone who lived in the world many years ago? No, it is so much more than just a story. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is God's power and plan for salvation; it is His plan to forgive us and reconcile us, in other words, to restore us into a right relationship with Him. He provided no other way! The Gospel is full of God's power; anyone who believes is instantly transformed and saved! The governor of Cypress was saved when he believed the Word of the Lord shared by Paul and Barnabas (Acts:13:12) In Acts 13:47, Paul and Barnabas said, \"For the Lord gave us this command when He said; 'I have made you a light to the Gentiles, to bring salvation to the farthest corners of the earth.\" The light they brought is the Gospel which holds the power of salvation! Jesus said in John:5:24; \"All we must do is believe. \"I tell you the truth; those who listen to My message and believe in God who sent Me have eternal life. They will never be condemned for their sins, but they have already passed from death into life.\" The Gospel contains the power to instantly move a believer from death to life! Yes, the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation for all who believe! Paul talks about why he is eager to preach the Good News in Romans:1:16-17 : \"For I am not ashamed of this Good News about Christ. It is the power of God at work, saving everyone who believes the Jew first and also the Gentile. This Good News tells us how God makes us right in his sight. This is accomplished from start to finish by faith. As the Scriptures say, \"It is through faith that a righteous person has life.\" By sharing the Gospel, we bring the awesome power of God that will transform anyone's life who believes!", "Q": "How should we view others?", "A": "How do we see others; especially after they have made a mistake or bad choice? Do we look down on them or are we willing to overlook a fault and to forgive? Barnabas was a humble man who was full of God's Spirit. He did not consider himself better than others and was willing to give others a second chance. Because of his humility and God's power in working Him, many were brought to the Lord. (Acts 11:24) After Saul encountered Jesus on the road to Damascus and became a believer, he desired to meet with the believers in Jerusalem. Unfortunately, they were not anxious to meet him. They were afraid of Saul and didn't believe he was really a changed man! Barnabas to the rescue! He gave Saul a second chance and believed he was a changed man. Barnabas then brought him to the apostles and put in a good word for him. The apostles accepted Saul and he began to boldly preach around Jerusalem. (Acts 9:26-28). Barnabas was a peacemaker and seemed to look for the best in people. After John Mark had deserted Paul and Barnabas on their first journey, it was Barnabas who wanted to give John Mark a second chance. Paul was unwilling to do this and this caused a split in their relationship. Barnabas traveled with John Mark and Paul chose to continue his journey with Silas. Yes, Barnabas had gone to bat for Saul (Paul), and he was now willing to do the same for John Mark! Barnabas did not look down on John Mark or condemn him for his previous decision to leave them. (Acts 15:36-41). Ephesians 4:2-3 says, \"Always be humble and gentle. Be patient with each other, making allowance for each other's faults because of your love. Make every effort to keep yourselves united in the Spirit, binding yourselves together with peace.\" Barnabas did not give up on John Mark, and his efforts to keep the peace and unity between Paul and John Mark were rewarded some time later. Paul later called John Mark a co-worker and helper in his ministry. He requested that John Mark come see him in the later years of Paul's life. (Philemon 1:24; 2 Timothy 4:9-11). Romans 12:10 tells us to love each other with genuine affection, and take delight in honoring each other. Barnabas delighted in honoring others and what God was doing in them. Let us always honor others and be willing to give second chances as Barnabas did and as God does with us!", "Q": "Should we encourage one another?", "A": "Have you had someone encourage, support, or defend you in a difficult time? Barnabas was this type of person. He always seemed to come alongside others who needed help. He was an encourager; so much so that the meaning of the nickname the other apostles gave him was \"Son of Encouragement\" (Acts 4:36). He had a desire to help others grow in the Lord and to function in the gift and calling God had for them. He was willing to support others when it seemed no one else would. We see that with Saul (Paul), John Mark, and the churches that Paul and he ministered to. (Acts 9:26-28; Acts 11:22-23; Acts 14:21-25; Acts15:36-39). Have you ever been around someone that seems to delight in kicking others when they are down? They choose to tear down or condemn others when they make a mistake or fall into sin instead of building up and helping them to overcome. As followers of Christ, we have a responsibility and a calling to be like Barnabas; to build up instead of tear down. The Bible calls us to be encouragers. \"Brothers and sisters, we urge you to warn those who are lazy. Encourage those who are timid. Take tender care of those who are weak. Be patient with everyone.\" (1 Thessalonians 5:14). The world might cast aside the lazy, weak, or timid; yet, this passage tells us we are to be different. Yes, we are called to help others succeed; it is our responsibility! Ecclesiastes 4:9-10 says, \"Two people are better off than one, for they can help each other succeed. If one person falls, the other can reach out and help. But someone who falls alone is in real trouble.\" Rather than kick others when they are down, we are called to reach out and help them up. This is what Barnabas did and this is what Jesus did while He was on the earth. He reached out and touched those who others had written off and cast aside. (Isaiah 61:1; Matthew 18:11; John 3:17; Luke 5:31).", "Q": "Should we stand for what is right?", "A": "What do we do when we see an injustice? What if we are the only one who believes a certain way about something or someone? Are we willing to stand up for what God says in His Word; even if no one else agrees? These are hard questions to answer. The well-respected Pharisee and Jewish leader named Gamaliel was willing to stand up for what was right. In a very angry and stressful situation, he was one voice against many. Because of His advice, the apostle's very lives were saved. (Acts 5:33-40). Barnabas was the only one willing to stand up for Saul (Paul) when he became a believer in Jesus. The believers and leaders in Jerusalem were afraid of Paul. They didn't think his conversion was genuine. Barnabas brought him to the apostles and testified on his behalf. (Acts 9:26-28). In the Old Testament, Joshua was willing to make a stand for God and challenged God's people to do the same. (Joshua 24:15). He didn't wait to see what the majority would do before he chose a side. No, Joshua made his stand first! When we know something is right, we must do it! James 4:17 says, \"Remember, it is sin to know what you ought to do and then not do it.\" Paul and Barnabas met opposition in different cities that they traveled to. However, they continued to boldly stand for the truth of God's Word. \"The same thing happened in Iconium. Paul and Barnabas went to the Jewish synagogue and preached with such power that a great number of both Jews and Greeks became believers. Some of the Jews, however, spurned God's message and poisoned the minds of the Gentiles against Paul and Barnabas. But the apostles stayed there a long time, preaching boldly about the grace of the Lord. And the Lord proved their message was true by giving them power to do miraculous signs and wonders. But the people of the town were divided in their opinion about them. Some sided with the Jews, and some with the apostles.\" (Acts 14:1-4). Even with signs and wonders confirming their words, some still didn't believe. This did not stop the apostles; they continued to stand up for what was right! It is rarely easy to make a stand for what is right. There will often be strong opposition to God's Word. We must always be encouraged by 1 Peter 3:14 and continue to stand! \"But even if you suffer for doing what is right, God will reward you for it. So don't worry or be afraid of their threats.\"", "Q": "Should we be generous with what we have?", "A": "Barnabas was a generous man with both his time and money. Acts 4:37 says, \"He sold a field he owned and brought the money to the apostles.\" Barnabas wanted to support the early church and provide for the needs of other believers. There was not a requirement to give the entire amount, yet he chose to. Being generous does not always mean giving large sums of money. Have you heard the phrase, quality is more important than quantity? This certainly applies to giving in God's kingdom. Jesus observed people giving an offering in the Jerusalem Temple. Many rich people gave large sums of money. These givers were not the ones who Jesus took notice of. It was a poor widow that dropped in two small coins that Jesus brought to the disciples' attention. Jesus called his disciples to him and said, \"I tell you the truth, this poor widow has given more than all the others who are making contributions. For they gave a tiny part of their surplus, but she, poor as she is, has given everything she had to live on.\" (Mark 12:41-44). God looks at the motive of our hearts when we give. He knows if we give it grudgingly or cheerfully. 2 Corinthians 9:7 says, \" You must each decide in your heart how much to give. And don't give reluctantly or in response to pressure. \"For God loves a person who gives cheerfully.\" Being generous is not just limited to giving our money to God's work and to others. Barnabas and Paul were also generous with their time. \"Then Barnabas went on to Tarsus to look for Saul. When he found him, he brought him back to Antioch. Both of them stayed there with the church for a full year, teaching large crowds of people.\" (Acts 11:25-26). These men generously chose to go back to places they had already been to follow up with the believers to encourage and strengthen them in their faith. (Acts 15:36; Acts 14:21-28). God wants us to be generous because He is generous with us! 2 Cor. 9:10-11 says, \"For God is the one who provides seed for the farmer and then bread to eat. In the same way, he will provide and increase your resources and then produce a great harvest of generosity in you. Yes, you will be enriched in every way so that you can always be generous. And when we take your gifts to those who need them, they will thank God.\" Yes, God blesses us to bless others! 1 Timothy 6:17-19 says, \"Teach those who are rich in this world not to be proud and not to trust in their money, which is so unreliable. Their trust should be in God, who richly gives us all we need for our enjoyment. Tell them to use their money to do good. They should be rich in good works and generous to those in need, always being ready to share with others. By doing this they will be storing up their treasure as a good foundation for the future so that they may experience true life.\"", "Q": "What should we seek while on earth?", "A": "Simon the Sorcerer liked the feeling of power. For many years he claimed to be great and soaked up the praise of the people. Acts:8:10 says, \" Everyone, from the least to the greatest, often spoke of him as \"the Great One the Power of God.\" However, things changed when Philip came to Samaria. The people believed God's Word and were amazed at the signs and miracles that accompanied Philip. In fact, his ministry was so powerful that even Simon believed and was baptized! Simon then followed Philip everywhere he went. He was attracted and amazed by the miracles that Philip performed by God's power. (Acts:8:5-7, Acts:8:12-13) When Peter and John came to Samaria, they laid hands on people to receive the Holy Spirit. Simon wanted this power so much that he offered money to buy it from Peter! Peter rebuked him and revealed that Simon's heart was not right with God. It was full of jealousy, wickedness, and sin. Simon was probably sincere when he first believed and was baptized. Yet, instead of seeking God and a closer relationship with Him, Simon sought God's power first. It seems he wanted to attract large crowds again and amaze those who followed him, just like Philip. Simon was all about earthly power and fame. (Acts:8:14-23). As followers of Christ, we are to seek God above all else. Colossians:3:1-2 says, \"Since you have been raised to new life with Christ, set your sights on the realities of heaven, where Christ sits in the place of honor at God's right hand. Think about the things of heaven, not the things of earth.\" Simon set his sights on the things of the world and thought about what he could do with God's power for his own benefit. Matthew:6:33 says, \"Seek the Kingdom of God above all else, and live righteously, and he will give you everything you need.\" God never tells us to seek power on this earth. He tells us to seek His face and live for Him. He promises then to give us all we need. Jesus, when He came to earth, refused to set up an earthly kingdom even when His followers tried to make Him king. Jesus instead came to seek God, to do His will on the earth, and to prepare us to live with Him in God's spiritual kingdom. (John:6:15, John:18:36) Instead of seeking earthly power, we are to live to serve God and humble ourselves before Him. When we do that, He will exalt and lift us up at the right time. 1 Peter:5:6 says, \"So humble yourselves under the mighty power of God, and at the right time he will lift you up in honor.\"", "Q": "What job is most important?", "A": "Before Philip became an evangelist and worked miracles, he was a faithful deacon serving the widows in the church. Perhaps that doesn't sound very important or exciting. But, listen to what happened when he and the other deacons did their jobs. \"These seven were presented to the apostles, who prayed for them as they laid their hands on them. So God's message continued to spread. The number of believers greatly increased in Jerusalem, and many of the Jewish priests were converted, too.\" (Acts:8:6-7) We see that the deacon's role was important because it freed up the apostles to pray, study, and preach God's Word instead of doing tasks like feeding the widows in the church. The church continued to grow and even some Jewish priests became believers; that's powerful! When Philip was sharing the Gospel in Samaria, he also baptized the new believers in water. Peter and John came to Samaria and then baptized these believers in the Spirit. Philip, Peter and John had different roles and all worked together to accomplish God's work. (Acts:8:4-17). Every job, no matter how big or small it may appear, is important in God's Kingdom. The apostle Paul talked about this topic in 1 Corinthians:5:9: \"After all, who is Apollos? Who is Paul? We are only God's servants through whom you believed the Good News. Each of us did the work the Lord gave us. I planted the seed in your hearts, and Apollos watered it, but it was God who made it grow. It's not important who does the planting, or who does the watering. What's important is that God makes the seed grow. The one who plants and the one who waters work together with the same purpose. And both will be rewarded for their own hard work. For we are both God's workers. And you are God's field. You are God's building.\" In God's kingdom we work hand in hand with each other and God! The Holy Spirit orchestrates and anoints God's followers to work in harmony with each other to do God's will. \"There are different kinds of spiritual gifts, but the same Spirit is the source of them all. There are different kinds of service, but we serve the same Lord. God works in different ways, but it is the same God who does the work in all of us. It is the one and only Spirit who distributes all these gifts. He alone decides which gift each person should have.\" (1 Corinthians:12:4-6,11)", "Q": "How can someone be saved?", "A": "God sent His Son to the earth because He loves us and He wants us to spend eternity with Him. \"For God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.\" (John 3:16). Everyone who believes has eternal life; that's it period! Philip preached the Good News and performed miracles to confirm that Word. Many believed and were baptized. Philip did not preach a complicated message. He did not require that they sign a paper and promise to keep all of the Jewish laws and customs of that day. He simply preached the Good News. Those who believed were saved and baptized in water. Peter and John came later to baptize these believers in the Spirit. By God pouring out His Spirit on these non-Jews, or Gentiles, He removed any doubt of their salvation and acceptance by Him! (Acts:8:4-8, Acts:12-17) The fact is that God wants us all to be saved; He on purpose made it a simple process. (2 Peter:3:9). Romans:10:13 makes it very clear: \"For everyone who calls on the name of the LORD will be saved.\" The key word in the verse is \"everyone\". Man creates rules and religion to make it seem difficult, but this is not God's way. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees and religious leaders for adding conditions and rules to for the people to follow that even they could not keep. (Luke:11:37-52) In Acts:16:29-32, the jailer fell down before Paul and Silas and asked what he must do to be saved. \"The jailer called for lights and ran to the dungeon and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. Then he brought them out and asked, \"Sirs, what must I do to be saved?\" They replied, \"Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, along with everyone in your household.\" What exciting news the jailer learned; not only he, but his whole family simply needed to believe in Jesus to be saved! The Ethiopian Eunuch was reading Scripture from the book of Isaiah. Philip, led by the Holy Spirit, came alongside his carriage as he read. \"The eunuch asked Philip, \"Tell me, was the prophet talking about himself or someone else?\" So beginning with this same Scripture, Philip told him the Good News about Jesus.\" Philip simply shared the Good News and the man received Jesus! A short time later, the eunuch saw some water in the desert and asked Philip to baptize him. After he was baptized, the eunuch went on his way rejoicing! God's plan of salvation is not burdensome or hard; it is easy and brings us freedom and joy! Romans:10:9 says, \"If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.\"", "Q": "Will a person feel anything when they believe in Jesus?", "A": "When someone believes in Jesus as Savior, they are set free from sin and receive eternal life. This is cause for celebration! As Philip preached in Samaria and performed healings and other miracles and signs, there was great joy in the city! (Acts:8:8) When the Ethiopian Eunuch received the Good news and was baptized, he went on his way rejoicing! (Acts:8:39) Our salvation is not based on feelings; it is based on believing or by faith in Jesus. However, we can't help but be filled with the joy of the Lord! This is exactly what Jesus wants to give us! In John:17:13, Jesus said: \"Now I am coming to you. I told them many things while I was with them in this world so they would be filled with my joy.\" The new church in Jerusalem was filled with excitement and joy. Acts:2:43-47 says, \"A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many miraculous signs and wonders. And all the believers met together in one place and shared everything they had. They sold their property and possessions and shared the money with those in need. They worshiped together at the Temple each day, met in homes for the Lord's Supper, and shared their meals with great joy and generosity all the while praising God and enjoying the goodwill of all the people. And each day the Lord added to their fellowship those who were being saved.\" Yes, joy comes as a direct result of our salvation and relationship with God and other believers. Paul and Barnabas brought the Gospel to the Gentiles and they thanked the Lord for His message. The Good News Spread and many became believers. The Jewish religious leaders eventually ran Paul and Barnabas out of town but the joy of the Lord from receiving the Good News could not be stopped! \"And the believers were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.\" (Acts:13:48-52). As believers in Christ, our lives should be filled with joy as we live for Jesus! 1 Peter:1:8 says, \"You love him even though you have never seen him. Though you do not see him now, you trust him; and you rejoice with a glorious, inexpressible joy.\"", "Q": "How can I be saved?", "A": "Nicodemus had to know more. He couldn't have imagined what Jesus was about to tell him. Here he was, a respected teacher and Pharisee leader at an old age. Surely this would mean something as far as entering God's kingdom. Jesus wasted no time in telling him what was required; simply, he must be born again. All of Nicodemus' education, teaching, knowledge of the Law, good deeds, and giving did not give him entrance into the Kingdom to secure him a place in heaven for eternity. Only a new birth by God's Word and Spirit could do that. (John:3:5-7). What a humbling and confusing moment this must have been for Nicodemus. (John:3:1-16. Ephesians:2:8-9 is clear that nothing we do by our flesh, in other words, by our own effort or power, can obtain salvation for us. It is only accomplished by God's Spirit. What does it mean to be born again? It is a spiritual rebirth, starting a brand-new life in the Spirit. All we need to do is believe and trust in Jesus and the work He did on the cross. When we confess Him as our Lord and Savior, the Bible says that we become a new person in Christ. The old life is gone; a new life has begun! (2 Corinthians:5:17) Titus 3:5 says it so well; \"He saved us, not because of the righteous things we had done, but because of His mercy. He washed away our sins, giving us a new birth and new life through the Holy Spirit.\" Isn't that fantastic? Jesus' instructions were not just for Nicodemus; everyone must be reborn by God's Spirit; there are no other options that God gave us to enter His spiritual kingdom. Jesus explained to Nicodemus, it isn't about a natural birth, it is about a supernatural birth by God's Spirit. Though no one can fully understand how it happens, we believe by faith what the Holy Spirit does inside us as we trust in Jesus as our Lord and Savior. (Romans:10:9).", "Q": "Why did Jesus come to earth?", "A": "So, what exactly was Jesus' purpose for leaving perfection in heaven to come to earth? Very simply, Jesus came in obedience to God's plan to rescue us and set us free from sin and bondage, so we might serve Him on this earth and live with Him in heaven for all of eternity! That's a mouthful isn't it? John 3:16-19 says this about God's plan and Jesus' purpose: \"For God so loved the world that He gave His one and only Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send His Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through Him. Whoever believes in Him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe stands condemned already because they have not believed in the name of God's one and only Son. This is the verdict: Light has come into the world, but people loved darkness instead of light because their deeds were evil.\" God has one way to escape His judgment and punishment for sin; through belief in Jesus, His only Son. This was Jesus' purpose and mission that He perfectly fulfilled. Jesus came to save us not to condemn and punish us. Mankind is hopelessly lost and trapped in sin; God gives us a choice to remain in darkness or come to the light of Jesus and be free! Jesus' purpose Is revealed in one verse: Luke 19:10 says, \"The Son of Man came to seek and save those who are lost.\" While on the earth, Jesus forgave sins and set people free from all kinds of bondage and disease. Jesus caused an uproar with the Pharisees when He healed a woman on the Sabbath day who had been in bondage for eighteen years. He even chose to do this in the Synagogue! Jesus incensed the religious leaders again when He healed a man who had a disease that caused his arms and legs to swell \" this time, at a Pharisee's home! (Luke:13:10-16, Luke:14:1-6). Nicodemus took note of these miracles and knew deep in his heart that God had sent Jesus and was working through Him. Jesus stated what He was all about in Luke 4:18. \"The Spirit of the LORD is upon Me, for He has anointed Me to bring Good News to the poor. He has sent Me to proclaim that captives will be released, that the blind will see, that the oppressed will be set free.\" Jesus knew what He came to Earth to do. His mission is to set people free in this world and for all of eternity.", "Q": "What is the Sabbath day for?", "A": "How did the idea of the Sabbath, the day of rest begin? Genesis 2:1-3 says, \"So the creation of the heavens and the earth and everything in them was completed. On the seventh day God had finished His work of creation, so He rested from all His work. And God blessed the seventh day and declared it holy, because it was the day when He rested from all His work of creation.\" God does not require rest or grow weary, yet, He chose to take the time to step back and admire His fabulous creation over the past six days. God knows that we, as frail humans, need a time to step back from all of our work and responsibilities to rest. In this time, we can admire God and His creation, and recharge and strengthen ourselves. In the Bible, we read many times where Jesus modeled this to His disciples and to us. He purposefully withdrew from the crowds and His disciples to spend time and relax with God. In this time, He received instructions and strength for the day's journey. (Luke:5:16, Mark:1:35, Luke:9:28, Mark:6:30-32) We, too, should do as Jesus did each day. However, God also requires us to take one special day each week to honor Him and to pause from our many activities and responsibilities. In this time, we can renew ourselves physically, spiritually, and emotionally. This is God's directive not to burden us, but to bless and benefit us. Jesus infuriated the religious leaders, particularly the Pharisees by healing people on the Sabbath. They were not excited to see people who had been sick and bound for many years, be set free! No, Jesus, in their minds, broke the rules! But, Jesus had come to set people free; no matter what day it was; this was His mission! He often rebuked the Pharisees for their criticism, self-righteousness, and hypocrisy. (Matthew:23:1-36) In Luke 13: 10-17. Jesus silenced the Pharisees when they became angry that He healed a woman on the Sabbath day in the Synagogue! \"But the Lord replied, \"You hypocrites! Each of you works on the Sabbath day! Don't you untie your ox or your donkey from its stall on the Sabbath and lead it out for water? This dear woman, a daughter of Abraham, has been held in bondage by Satan for eighteen years. Isn't it right that she be released, even on the Sabbath?\" (Luke:13: 15-17) Jesus was saying that there was actually no better day than the Lord's day to set someone free from bondage! The same applies for today! Verse 17 says, \"This shamed His enemies, but all the people rejoiced at the wonderful things He did.\" Soon after, Jesus was at it again, much to the displeasure of the Pharisees. He healed a man on the Sabbath day, and this time in a Pharisee's home! Jesus asked the Pharisees if they believed it was legal to heal on the Sabbath? They remained silent. Jesus promptly took hold of the man, healed him and sent him on his way! (Luke:14:1-4) \"Then he asked them, \"If one of you has a child or an ox that falls into a well on the Sabbath day, will you not immediately pull it out?\" And they had nothing to say.\" (Luke:14:5-6) In Matthew 12: 1-14, Jesus once again encountered the wrath and hypocrisy of the Pharisees. They took issue when Jesus and His disciples walked through a grain field and his disciples picked wheat to eat when they were hungry. How dare they strengthen and nourish themselves on the Sabbath! Jesus silenced them by reminding them of the Scripture when King David ate the bread on the Sabbath in the Temple. \"I tell you, there is one here who is even greater than the Temple! But you would not have condemned My innocent disciples if you knew the meaning of this Scripture: 'I want you to show mercy, not offer sacrifices.' For the Son of Man is Lord, even over the Sabbath!\" (Matthew:12:6-8) In this same account in the book of Mark, Jesus tells us the purpose of the Sabbath. Then Jesus said to them, \"The Sabbath was made to meet the needs of people, and not people to meet the requirements of the Sabbath. So, the Son of Man is Lord, even over the Sabbath!\" (Mark:2:27-28) Yes, Jesus declared Himself Lord of the Sabbath He, not them, would determine how to observe God's Holy day made for man! His desire was for them to show mercy to others and help them instead of performing their ritualistic and self-righteous acts of worship. Soon afterward, on the Sabbath, the Pharisees tried to trap Him. Jesus was unmoved and healed a man's lame hand in the Synagogue. He told them it was lawful to do good on the Sabbath. At this point, the Pharisees had seen enough, and they plotted to kill Him! (Matthew:12:9-14) There is much discussion and disagreement even today on how the Sabbath day is to be observed. What we do know is that it is a holy day unto God, to honor and worship Him, and to do good to others. It is also a day created specifically for us, not to weigh us down with rules, but to give us a day each week to rest and gain strength. God intended this day to be a blessing and not a burden to His children!", "Q": "Does Jesus have time for me?", "A": "Nicodemus came to Jesus in the dark of the night to talk one on one. He had questions and concerns about Jesus and His ministry that conflicted with the Jewish traditions and Law he had studied, taught, lived, and led others to follow. Nicodemus' fellow Pharisees were highly offended by Jesus and plotted to stop His ministry; what was the truth he must know! Did Jesus turn Nicodemus' away because he was a Pharisee also? Absolutely not; Jesus made Himself accessible and engaged in conversation with him. Without a doubt, Jesus' words were not what he expected; but never the less, Jesus talked with him. Jesus will always tell us what we need to hear not necessarily what we want to hear! (John:3:1-16) In Revelation 3:20, we see how Jesus longs and waits to spend time with us. He never will \"break the door to our heart down\", or force us to spend time with Him, but he knocks and patiently waits for us to willingly open the door to welcome Him. \"Look! I stand at the door and knock. If you hear my voice and open the door, I will come in, and we will share a meal together as friends.\" What a wonderful thing to know that Jesus comes to us! In Matthew 11:28-30, Jesus welcomes us to come to give us rest and strength. \"Then Jesus said, \"Come to Me, all of you who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you. Let Me teach you, because I am humble and gentle at heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy to bear, and the burden I give you is light.\" Jesus was truly on a mission for God; His time was limited, but He made time for even the children! Luke 18:15-16 says: \"One day some parents brought their little children to Jesus so He could touch and bless them. But when the disciples saw this, they scolded the parents for bothering Him. Then Jesus called for the children and said to the disciples, \"Let the children come to Me. Don't stop them! For the Kingdom of God belongs to those who are like these children.\" There are countless examples recorded in the Bible of Jesus spending time with people that others had no time for. Zacchaeus, blind Bartimaeus, and the woman with the issue of blood; to name just a few. (Luke:19:1-10, Mark:10:47-52, Luke:8:43-48) And, if all of this isn't exciting enough, we can be confident knowing that our relationship with Him will ever change or come to an end. Jesus will never move away from us. He is with us now and is preparing for us to live with Him forever! \"Don't let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God, and trust also in me. There is more than enough room in my Father's home. If this were not so, would I have told you that I am going to prepare a place for you? When everything is ready, I will come and get you, so that you will always be with Me where I am. And you know the way to where I am going.\" (John:14:1-4) How much of an impact did Jesus' spending time with Nicodemus have? Nicodemus, along with another Pharisee, named Joseph of Arimathea, publicly took Jesus body from the cross after He died. Nicodemus brought expensive spices and ointments to prepare Jesus' body for burial and they laid Him in the tomb. (John:19: 39-40)", "Q": "What does God look like?", "A": "That's a little hard to say. God is a Person, but he's also a Spirit, so we can't be completely sure what He will look like to us when we are with Him in heaven. But Jesus told the disciples, \"If you have seen me, you have seen the Father\" (John 14:9). So it's a safe bet that He will look a whole lot like Jesus -- since Jesus is God, of course!", "Q": "Can Christians hear God talking to them?", "A": "Jesus said, \"My sheep know my voice\" (John 10:27a). But He didn't mean that we would hear Him with our ears! He meant we would recognize when He was communicating with us. We probably won't hear an actual voice with our ears. But God does communicate with those who have accepted Him into their hearts.", "Q": "Why doesn't God just zap all the bad people?", "A": "Because He loves them! God loves everyone, even people who don't love Him back. And God wants everyone to know He loves them so they can turn to Him -- and stop behaving badly. God holds out hope for all of His children, especially those we might think of as \"bad.\".", "Q": "Was there anything in the universe before God?", "A": "No. God has always existed. That's a hard concept for us to understand, but it's true. There is no time when God did not exist, no matter how far back you go. In fact, here's a concept: God created time! So God lives outside of time in eternity. Heaven is outside of time and space, so we can't drive there, not even in an incredibly fast space ship. The Bible says that God is the \"Alpha and the Omega \" the beginning and the end. I am the one who is, who always was, and who is still to come \" the Almighty One\" (Revelation 1:8). Hard to understand, right? But it tells of God's awesomeness. He is the creator of everything. And the cool thing is that He created you, too, and has a wonderful plan for your life!", "Q": "Does God look like Jesus?", "A": "Yes, but not exactly! Remember that when Jesus was here on earth, He wasn't in what we call his \"glorified state.\" The Bible tells us that Jesus left His \"glory\" in heaven so that he could come to Earth to be like us, to be a human being. But when we see Jesus in heaven, He will be \"full of glory.\" We can't know exactly what Jesus will look like in heaven, but we can get a pretty good idea from two passages in the New Testament. The first is when He is with Peter, James, and John on the Mount of Transfiguration. It says that His face \"shone like the sun\" or, put another way, that \"sunlight poured from his face.\" It says that His clothes were so bright and white that Peter, James, and John couldn't look at him. The second passage is in the book of Revelation, and it describes Jesus in a similar way. It says that He was dressed in a long robe with a gold sash wrapped around His chest. And it says that His hair was white as snow, and His eyes were like a fiery flame. And His voice sounded like rushing waters. John was so overwhelmed that John fell on his face. It was just too much to be in Jesus' presence. But Jesus said to him, \"Don't be afraid\" (Revelation 1:17). But we can understand why John was afraid. Actually seeing God is no small thing to imagine!", "Q": "Why didn't God just forgive everybody?", "A": "God did forgive everybody, but He doesn't force us to accept His forgiveness. It's a free gift -- but the recipient of a gift still has to accept the gift. We are only forgiven if we accept God's forgiveness through Jesus Christ.", "Q": "How do I become even closer to God than I am now?", "A": "By obeying Him. Every time we obey God and do His will, we become more like Him and draw closer to Him. Prayer is another way of drawing closer to God. You can become closer to God this very minute by praying to God! .", "Q": "If Adam and Eve hadn't sinned, would people sin today?", "A": "No! That's what's so sad about the Fall. It affected every single person who would ever live. It broke our relationship with God. But there's good news: God sent Jesus to repair the broken relationship. Jesus broke the power of sin over us. So if we accept Him into our hearts, we can overcome sin!", "Q": "How is God always there?", "A": "God is \"omnipresent.\" That means that He really can be everywhere at once. He's not like us, who can only be in one place at a time. He can be everywhere. So wherever we are, God is there, too. We never have to wonder if God is with us. He is always with us!.", "Q": "How was God created?", "A": "Everything in the universe -- including every angel and person and planet -- was created by God. But God Himself was not created. God existed before the Creation. It's a deep mystery, but it's true! God has always existed.", "Q": "Why do I feel bad when I do something wrong?", "A": "God created every one of us in His image. So even though we are all sinners, deep down inside, we know what's right and what's wrong. That's what we call having a \"conscience.\".", "Q": "How can I grow as a Christian?", "A": "In the same way that a baby grows and matures, so a Christian needs to grow and mature. There are four main things that a child of God needs to do in order to grow spiritually: 1.\tRead the Bible 2.\tPray 3.\tMeet with others Christians (have fellowship) 4.\tTell others about Jesus (witness) It's like a car that needs four pumped up tires to be able to drive well on a road. 1. Read the Bible (in the Old Testament, the Bible is referred to as the Law of the Lord) Psalm 1:2,3 - But they delight in the law of the LORD, meditating on it day and night. They are like trees planted along the riverbank, bearing fruit each season. Their leaves never wither, and they prosper in all they do. a) The Bible helps us to grow as Christians -- just like milk helps a baby to grow. 1 Peter 2:2 - You must crave pure spiritual milk so that you can grow into the fullness of your salvation. Cry out for this nourishment as a baby cries for milk. b) The Bible is like a guidebook on how God wants us to live. Psalm 119:9 - How can a young person stay pure? By obeying your word and following its rules. Psalm 119:11 - I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Psalm 119:105 - Your word is a lamp for my feet and a light for my path. c) The Bible is part of the spiritual armor that helps us to fight against the attacks of the devil. Ephesians 6:17 - Take the sword of the Spirit which is the word of God. Matthew 4:10 - \"Get out of here, Satan,\" Jesus told him. \"For the Scriptures say...,\" 2.\tPray Why should I pray? a) Praying is talking to God. When you love someone you want to talk to them. Prayer is a two-way conversation that helps us to grow in our relationship with God. Through prayer, we talk to God and He talks to us. You can talk to God about everything: what's happening in your life, how you feel, what you need. Philippians 4:6 - Don't worry about anything; instead, pray about everything. Tell God what you need, and thank him for all he has done. b) Jesus showed us that it was important to pray. Luke 6:12 - One day soon afterward Jesus went up on a mountain to pray, and he prayed to God all night. c) When should I pray? You can pray as often as you can, at any time, about anything and everything. 1 Thessalonians 5:17 - Never stop praying. d)Where should I pray? You can pray to God anywhere. Remember Jonah? He was in the belly of a great fish when he prayed! e) How should I pray? Jesus taught us how to pray when he gave us the Lord's Prayer. The letters of the word ACTS helps us to remember the different aspects of prayer: A - Adoration. Praise God and talk about the wonderful things He has done. C - Confess. Confess your sin to God. Tell Him about the things you have done (and those that you should not have done) as well as the things you haven't done (and should have done). Talk to God about your wrong thoughts and wrong attitudes as well. T - Thanks. Thank God for forgiving you and for all His blessings. S - Supplication. This word means 'to ask'. Ask God for what you, and other people, need. 3.\tFellowship Meet with other Christians regularly - go to church or Sunday school. Perhaps you could join a Bible club, youth group, or go to a Christian camp. Acts 2:42 - They joined with the other believers and devoted themselves to the apostle's teaching and fellowship, sharing in the Lord's Supper and in prayer. Acts 2:44 - And all the believers met together in one place and shared everything they had. 4.\tWitness Tell others about how God loves them so much that he sent Jesus to die so that, if they believe on Him and accept Him as Savior, they can be forgiven and have eternal life. John 3:16 - For God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life. Mark 5:19 - But Jesus said, \"No, go home to your friends, and tell them what wonderful things the Lord has done for you and how merciful he has been.\"", "Q": "Does God always keep His promises?", "A": "Did you know that God makes promises and always keeps His promises? He made the greatest promise EVER \" and people began to doubt His promise because it was several centuries before the promise would be fulfilled. Hundreds of years before the angel Gabriel announced to Mary that she would become pregnant by the power of the Holy Spirit and she would have a son, God had promised His people that a virgin would give birth to a son called Immanuel (\"God with us\") (Isaiah 7:14). The fulfillment of this promise of God being with us came when Jesus was born. The angel Gabriel's message to Mary (Luke 1:26-38) also contained promises about Jesus and a kingdom that would never end. We can trust in God's promises. Thank Him that He always keeps His promises.", "Q": "Will God give me wisdom and direction?", "A": "King David had died and now his son Solomon was on the throne. How would he handle the responsibility and the pressure of leading God's people? Who could he go to for trusted help? Solomon did the right thing; with a humble heart he turned to God and asked for wisdom. Solomon described himself as like being a little child who didn't know his way around. He told God that no man could do such an important job alone. He sought the Lord's direction and discernment to know right from wrong. God gave Solomon what he asked for. He made Solomon wiser than anyone on the earth. And, God was so pleased with Solomon's request that God gave him what he didn't ask for; riches and fame! Solomon was also promised a long life if he obeyed God's commands. Solomon used God's wisdom to give judgment for a heartbreaking situation with two mothers and their babies. \"When all Israel heard the king's decision, the people were in awe of the king, for they saw the wisdom God had given him for rendering justice.\" (1 Kings 3:28). Solomon asked for wisdom and God gave it to him and much more. What would you answer if God asked you the same question that He asked Solomon? Proverbs 4:7 says simply, \"Getting wisdom is the wisest thing you can do!\" Wisdom begins and ends with God. God is our endless source of knowledge and understanding for every decision in this life. All we need to do is ask. \"If you need wisdom, ask our generous God, and he will give it to you. He will not rebuke you for asking.\" (James 1:5).", "Q": "I am young, do I need to live for God now?", "A": "David knew it was time for him to leave the earth as every human being must do. He made sure that he had reminded his son Solomon to give priority to following God's ways. David knew that if Solomon faithfully followed God, he would enjoy God's blessings in his life no matter where he went or what he did. When we are young, it may seem like this world will last forever. As we grow older, we begin to realize that time is very short compared to eternity. Our thoughts and plans should stretch beyond this earth! Hebrews 13:14 says, \"For this world is not our permanent home; we are looking forward to a home yet to come.\" It is so easy to focus on our needs and wants each day rather than God's will for our lives now and beyond. 1 John 2:17 says, \"And this world is fading away, along with everything that people crave. But anyone who does what pleases God will live forever.\" Doesn't it make sense to focus on what will last forever? The earth is not our permanent home; this life will not last. The things of God are forever while the things of this earth are temporary. James 4:14 reminds us of this reality. \"How do you know what your life will be like tomorrow? Your life is like the morning fog--it's here a little while, then it's gone.\" Time is short and we must make the most of it. There is nothing wrong with pursuing success and possessions on this earth. But, it cannot be our primary focus. Seek God for His purpose for your life and pursue it with all you've got - today! Jesus said: \"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.\" (Matthew 6:19-21). Time is short, pursue the things of God that will last forever!", "Q": "When will the world end?", "A": "No one knows. Jesus said that no one knows but the Father in heaven. So we can speculate, but anyone who says they know for sure is kidding themselves. We shouldn't worry about when the world will end, but we should get busy doing what God has told us to do in the meantime..", "Q": "Does God see everything we do?", "A": "Yes, absolutely. God is \"omniscient,\" which means that He knows everything in the whole universe. So God sees everything we do, both good and bad..", "Q": "How can God be three persons and one person at the same time?", "A": "The best answer to this is that it's a mystery! There are some things we can't understand very well. But we know that they are true nonetheless. Many things that are true can be difficult for us to understand. Just think about the idea that God is infinite or the idea that He created the whole universe out of nothing! Both are true, but to really understand them is a tall order! The doctrine of the Trinity is just like that. While not perfect, a good way to imagine how the Trinity works is to consider how water can exist in three forms. Water can be a liquid, water can be a solid (ice), and water can be a gas (steam or vapor), but all three forms are still water.", "Q": "What is the Trinity?", "A": "The Trinity is the idea that God is three Persons in one God. Actually it's more than an idea -- it's a hugely important part of the Christian faith. It means that God is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, all at the same time. We say that He is one God in three Persons. We can pray to God as Father, or to Jesus as the Son, or to God the Holy Spirit. Of course, no matter which of these three we pray to, we're praying to the same God.", "Q": "What is heaven like?", "A": "It's hard to say exactly what it will be like, but one thing is super clear: it will be heavenly! It will be glorious and wonderful! It will feel \"just right\" in every possible way, and that's because it really will be \"just right\" in every possible way. It's the place made by God for us. We were never meant to be in a world with death and suffering and sadness. We were meant to be with Him in paradise. That's what heaven is. It's the place where we are restored to perfect fellowship with the Lord.", "Q": "Will all my friends go to heaven?", "A": "It's hard to say exactly who will be in heaven. But the Bible says that all those who have trusted in the Lord Jesus will go to heaven. So if your friends have turned to Jesus and made Him the Lord of their lives, then according to the Bible, they will certainly be in heaven! Those of us who know that Jesus is the way to heaven should tell those who don't know because it's wonderful news! How can we keep such wonderful news to ourselves? We can't, and we shouldn't. If any of your friends aren't sure if they're going, tell them the Good News: Jesus died for their sins, and He wants to welcome them into heaven, too! It's the best news there is!", "Q": "When my pet dies, will it go to heaven?", "A": "Does your pet go to church? Ha ha... Just kidding! The serious answer to this question is that we don't really know. The Bible doesn't tell us that animals will be in heaven, but it doesn't say that they won't be, either. So we have to say we don't know. But one thing we do know: we can trust God with the details. He loves us more than we can imagine, so we can trust Him with the answer, even if we can't know the answer right now. Trusting God is always the way to go.", "Q": "When we die and go to heaven, do we get angels' wings?", "A": "No. You hear this idea sometimes, but it's simply not in the Bible. According to Scripture, we will get new bodies when we die, but we won't become like angels. So we won't get wings. Remember what Jesus was like after He rose from the grave? We'll be something like that. He was in human form, and He didn't have any wings. Neither will we.", "Q": "Where does God live?", "A": "In Paramus, New Jersey. Just kidding! But seriously God lives in heaven. But heaven is not a place in this universe, so we can't fly there in a spaceship. Heaven is outside our universe, in eternity. And that's where God lives!", "Q": "Why doesn't God take us to heaven as soon as we get saved?", "A": "Because God's plan to redeem the world includes us! Once we accept Jesus and become part of His Church, it's our job to do His work here on Earth. It's our job to show God's love to others, to tell them about Him, and share the good news of Jesus. If we went straight to heaven, we wouldn't be able to do that important work.", "Q": "How long is eternity?", "A": "This is a very difficult concept to explain, but eternity isn't just a very long time. Eternity is actually BEYOND time! It's a place where there is no time. That might be hard to understand, but it's true. Eternity is forever, but it won't feel like forever; it will feel just right. That's because God created us to live in eternity.", "Q": "Will I go to heaven when I die?", "A": "If you've accepted Jesus into your heart and have made Him the Lord of your life, yes -- you will go to heaven! But remember, God wants everyone to accept Jesus because He wants all of us to be with Him in heaven. He loves everyone, and He doesn't want anyone to be left out.", "Q": "Can we get into heaven by being good?", "A": "Except for Jesus himself, no human being can be good enough to get into heaven! The only way to get into heaven is by trusting in the Lord Jesus. He alone was sinless, and by His death on the Cross, He purchased our redemption. So trusting in Him is the only way to heaven.", "Q": "Is Jesus the only way to heaven?", "A": "Yes, Jesus is the only way to heaven. Jesus said, \"No one comes to the Father, but through me\" (John 14:6b). Because of Adam and Eve disobeying God in the Garden of Eden, we are all sinners. We all were separated from the love of God and from a life with Him in heaven. But in His mercy, God made a way for us all to get to heaven. And Jesus is the way. He invites everyone to accept Him and to spend eternity in Heaven with Him.", "Q": "If God is a God of love, why does he send people to hell?", "A": "It's not fair to say that God sends people to hell. He wants to send us to heaven. That's why he sent Jesus to earth: to die in our place and make a way for us to have eternal life with Him in heaven. But here's the catch: He won't force us to accept Jesus. God made us in His image and lets us choose to make whatever decisions we'd like to make. Somehow He even allows us the freedom to reject that offer of grace. It's very sad to think about, but for some mysterious reason, some people turn away from God's free offer of heaven. To be out of God's presence is to be in hell. It breaks God's heart that some people don't accept his offer of heaven, and He does everything he can to help us to accept it. But he won't force us.", "Q": "What is hell like?", "A": "Hell is so awful it's impossible for us to imagine. It's a place that God created not for us, but for what the Bible calls \"the devil and his angels.\" That means the angels that joined Satan's rebellion against God. They are fallen angels, and we call them demons. So hell is a place made for Satan and his demons. It's a place completely out of the presence of God. It's a place where there is nothing good -- it's a place of death and evil and total despair. Nothing could be more horrible, and nothing could make God sadder than that any human being should ever go there. We're not supposed to go there. Jesus came to save us from that fate, and Jesus longs to take us with him to the place God did create for us: heaven.", "Q": "Would God send people to hell just because they aren't Christians?", "A": "God doesn't want to send anyone to hell! But the only way we can get to heaven is by accepting Jesus' offer of forgiveness for our sins. Everyone is a sinner! So everyone needs to ask God's forgiveness. And it's our job as Christians to tell those who don't know about this. It's God's free gift of salvation, and it's open to everyone!", "Q": "Who ends up in hell?", "A": "According to the Bible, everyone is a sinner, so everyone should end up in hell. But God doesn't want anyone to end up in hell. That's why He sent Jesus to die on the cross -- so that everyone could be saved. If we accept God's free gift of salvation through Jesus, we can spend eternity in heaven, just as God intended! Have you accepted God's gift of salvation by asking Jesus into your heart?", "Q": "If I swear, will I go to hell when I die?", "A": "We shouldn't swear, but if you ever do, you should repent and ask God's forgiveness. If you are genuinely sorry, God will forgive you! Remember that Jesus died on the cross, so whoever turns to Him and asks His forgiveness can go to heaven. So if you sin, repent and ask God's forgiveness. God wants all of us to be with Him in heaven!", "Q": "When does the Bible first talk about the Holy Spirit?", "A": "The Bible talks about the Holy Spirit from its opening pages. In Genesis 1:2, the Bible says that the Holy Spirit was present and actively involved with creation: \"And the Spirit of God was hovering over the surface of the waters.\" Most people aren't aware that the Holy Spirit is mentioned at the beginning of the Bible, but the Holy Spirit was there at the beginning of creation, and the Holy Spirit is still around (and will always be around) to help us live a victorious Christian life.", "Q": "Who is the Holy Spirit?", "A": "The Holy Spirit is God -- just as God the Father is God and just as Jesus is God. Our Christian belief about the Trinity is that God is three Persons: the Father, the Son, and Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the third Person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit helps us in many ways such as being our teacher, helping us know when we are doing wrong, guiding us, helping us to know the truth, and giving us the power to live the Christian life and to tell others about Jesus.", "Q": "Why did Jesus go up to heaven instead of staying here on earth?", "A": "Because that was part of God's plan for redeeming the whole world. According to Scripture, Jesus would return to heaven and then send the Holy Spirit down to earth. That way every single person on earth who asked Jesus into their heart could be filled with the Holy Spirit. Those of us who are filled by the Holy Spirit are the Church, and God's plan is for the Church to bring God and His message to the whole world. It's an amazing plan! Jesus left the earth so that He could make it possible for all of us -- you and me -- to do the work that He started when He was here with us. This work includes sharing God's love with others, helping widows and orphans, and healing the sick.", "Q": "Why did God allow Jesus to be hurt?", "A": "John 3:16 tells us that, \"God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.\" We are all sinners and because of our sin, our relationship with God is broken. We deserve to be punished for our sin, but God allowed Jesus to take the punishment so that our relationship with Him can be restored. God allowed Jesus to be hurt because He loves us so much and wants us to live with Him forever. Jesus said, \"But I will do what the Father requires of me, so that the world will know that I love the Father\" (John 14:31). In John 14:6, we read that Jesus said, \"I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one can come to the Father except through me.\" Jesus knew it was the only way. Jesus willingly suffered and died so that we may have eternal life.", "Q": "How many wise men visited Jesus?", "A": "The Bible doesn't say. Tradition says there were three, but the Bible just says that wise men visited Jesus. It doesn't give a number. So we can't know how many there were exactly. There may have been more than three.", "Q": "Was Jesus an only child?", "A": "No. Jesus was Mary's firstborn, but after Jesus, Mary had several other children. According to Matthew 13, Jesus had four brothers and several sisters.", "Q": "How do you get Jesus in your heart?", "A": "By asking him to be Lord of your life. When you \"invite Jesus into your heart,\" what you are really doing is saying that now He is the Lord of your life! You trust him with everything and will obey Him and live for Him. And He is always with you.", "Q": "Why was Jesus born in a stable?", "A": "Joseph and Mary couldn't find a room in an inn, so they had to go into a stable just to get shelter for the night -- and that's when Jesus was born. But God allowed this to happen to show us that Jesus came into the world in a humble condition. Imagine: the God of the universe became a human being in a stable among lowly farm animals. It's pretty amazing! God's ways are not our ways!", "Q": "Was Jesus a vegetarian?", "A": "No. Jesus was a Jew, so we know that every year at Passover, He ate lamb. So we know eating meat isn't a sin because Jesus was perfect and sinless and also ate meat. We also know that Jesus ate fish. The Bible doesn't say that He ate vegetables, but it's a safe bet that He ate them, too! Sorry to be the one to tell you!", "Q": "Why does Jesus want us to follow Him?", "A": "Because He loves us and wants us to be with Him in heaven forever. If we make Him the Lord of our life, then we will follow Him with our whole hearts. And when we die, we will go to be with Him in heaven forever!", "Q": "Did Jesus really live just like me, or was He just pretending?", "A": "Jesus really was a human being, just like you! It was no act. Jesus really became a full-fledged human being while He was with us here on earth. When he suffered on the cross, He was really suffering. And when He died, He really died. It was all just as if it had happened to any of us.", "Q": "Why can't I see Jesus now?", "A": "Forty days after His resurrection, Jesus ascended into heaven. Since then we haven't been able to see Him the way the disciples saw Him during His time on earth. But guess what? After Jesus ascended into heaven, He sent the Holy Spirit to be with us! So Jesus didn't leave us alone. We still have Him with us through the power of the Holy Spirit.", "Q": "Why did God let them hurt Jesus?", "A": "The Bible says that the wages (or payment) of sin is death. And because we are all sinners, we all deserve death. But God loves us so much that He decided to send Jesus to die in our place. And Jesus loves us so much that He was willing to go. So He suffered and died willingly, to make it possible for us to live forever and to be with Him in heaven.", "Q": "If Jesus died on the cross, how can He be alive today?", "A": "Jesus died, but three days after His death, He was resurrected! That means God brought Him back to life! He's the eternal God and lives forever! Because Jesus died and came back to life, when we accept Him into our hearts, we will be resurrected after we die, too! So because of Jesus, we will have life after death, too!", "Q": "How did Jesus walk on water?", "A": "We don't know! But we do know that He did walk on water because the Bible tells us He did. Jesus did many miracles, and all of them are beyond our comprehension. That's what makes them miracles!", "Q": "Is Jesus God?", "A": "Yes, absolutely. Jesus is God. In fact, He is the Second Person of the Trinity (the Three-in-One God). He came to Earth and became a human being, but He has always existed, just as God the Father has always existed.", "Q": "Was the Bible written by people?", "A": "Absolutely! But God inspired them as they wrote -- so we really have to say that God wrote the Bible through people. Every word in the Bible is inspired by God.", "Q": "What is the Pentateuch?", "A": "\"Penta\" is the Greek word for \"five.\" The Pentateuch is the name for the first five books of the Bible: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy.", "Q": "Why should I read the Bible?", "A": "For many reasons! But the most important one is that the Bible is God's Word. It's His message directly to us! It tells us Who God is, what He thinks, and what His will is for us! Imagine that! Many people around the world have no access to Bibles, and they will travel miles and miles just to hear a few words from it. Those of us who have Bibles have a great privilege. We can read God's Word any time and should make the daily habit of spending time reading the Bible and thinking about the Bible. And we can find out more and more about Who God is every time we read the Bible. God wants us to know Him intimately. Every time we read the Bible, we get to know Him better and better. What could be more important than that?", "Q": "How can the Bible help a kid? Isn't it a book for old people?", "A": "Another name for the Bible is \"God's Word.\" God loves us, and the Bible is one way He communicates with us. When we read the Bible, we learn more about God, who He is, and what He does for us. The Bible is kind of like a guidebook that helps you live a good life. Psalm 119:9 - How can a young person stay pure? By obeying your word and following its rules. Psalm 119:11 - I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Psalm 119:105 - Your word is a lamp for my feet and a light for my path. The Bible can also help you grow as a Christian. 1 Peter 2:2 - You must crave pure spiritual milk so that you can grow into the fullness of your salvation. Cry out for this nourishment as a baby cries for milk. The Bible is also a part of the spiritual armor that can help you to fight against the attacks of the devil. Ephesians 6:17 - Take the sword of the Spirit which is the word of God. Good stuff to know, whether a kid or an adult, don't you think?", "Q": "Does the New Testament replace the Old Testament?", "A": "Absolutely not. For Christians, the Old Testament is as important as the New Testament. Together the Old and New Testaments make up the whole Bible, the Word of God.", "Q": "Why do we memorize Bible verses?", "A": "God wants us to be filled with His Word. When we memorize Scripture, that's just what happens. We can't always look things up in the Bible, but if we memorize verses, we have them handy whenever we want! Besides, memorizing things is fun! The more you memorize, the more fun it is! How many Bible verses do you think you can memorize in a week, a month, a year? Try it!", "Q": "What's a parable?", "A": "A parable is a made-up story that helps us understand something. Jesus told many parables to get His points across. The people in the parables didn't actually exist, but the stories can help us to understand important truths. Can you remember any parables?", "Q": "Who wrote the Bible?", "A": "God wrote the Bible -- but He used people to do it. He inspired them, and they wrote what God wanted them to write. So you could say that people and God wrote the Bible together, but every word in the Bible was inspired by God.", "Q": "What is the Bible?", "A": "The Bible is God's Word to His people. It's really a book of books. There are sixty-six books in all, and they were written by many authors over a period of about 1,500 years! But all of the authors were inspired by God as they wrote. He's the real author.", "Q": "Why aren't there dinosaurs in the Bible?", "A": "The Bible doesn't mention television or ice hockey or bananas or kangaroos, either. There are many things that aren't mentioned in the Bible, but that doesn't mean they don't exist or didn't exist at one time.", "Q": "Why do some people believe that humans came from monkeys?", "A": "The Bible says that God created us in His image. But some people just don't believe what the Bible says. They believe that a long, long time ago, our ancestors were monkeys. Aren't you glad you believe what the Bible says?!", "Q": "Why do we have a Bible?", "A": "The Bible is God's Word to us. It tells us everything we need to know about God and about how He wants us to behave. Without the Bible, we would be totally lost and in the dark. But the Bible is a \"lamp unto our feet\" -- shining God's light and showing us the right way to go! So we are not in the dark. Thank God for the Bible!", "Q": "Why do we study the Bible?", "A": "The Bible is God's Word. And it's written for each of us. Without it, we are truly lost. But by reading and studying the Bible, we learn about God and can learn how to live the way God wants us to live. Reading and studying the Bible makes it possible for us to get closer to God and to become more like Him every day.", "Q": "Is it okay to tell a lie once in a while?", "A": "\"You shall not lie\" is one of the Ten Commandments, so it's never okay to tell a lie. The Bible calls the Devil a liar. In fact, it calls him \"the father of lies\" (John 8:44). So telling the truth is very important to God, and telling a lie is never okay.", "Q": "Why won't parents let kids watch certain TV shows?", "A": "God put parents in authority over children. Part of their job is to protect children from harm. Many TV programs have things in them that can do great harm when we watch them, and parents use their wisdom to keep their children from harm.", "Q": "Why is it wrong to steal things?", "A": "\"You must not steal\" is one of the Ten Commandments, so we know it's deeply important to God. To take what is not ours is like stealing from God Himself. To take what is not yours is always a sin.", "Q": "What is tithing?", "A": "A \"tithe\" is an old-fashioned word for a \"tenth.\" Tithing refers to the biblical idea that we should give ten percent of everything to God. By giving ten percent to God, we acknowledge that everything we have belongs to Him.", "Q": "Why do I have to obey my parents?", "A": "Honoring our fathers and mothers is one of the Ten Commandments, so it's deeply important to God. God has put our parents in authority over us -- so to disobey them is to disobey God Himself.", "Q": "What should I do if someone makes fun of the Bible?", "A": "Many people make fun of things out of sheer ignorance and simply have no idea what they are talking about. So don't get upset. But if an opportunity presents itself, you can tell them that the Bible is the most wonderful book in the world, and you can offer to share what you know about it.", "Q": "Does money make people bad?", "A": "No. But the Bible says that the \"love of money is the root of all kinds of evil\" (1 Timothy 6:10a). Desiring money can be a terrible temptation, but money can also be a great blessing. The question is how we use the money the Lord has given us. All money is to be used for God's purposes and not our own.", "Q": "What is faith?", "A": "According to the Bible, faith is \"being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see\" (Hebrews 11:1). In other words, faith is knowing what God has said is true and, therefore, trusting God with our whole heart, soul, and mind. Faith is not just something we have in our heads. If we truly know that what God has said is true, then we will believe it with our whole being. And we will behave accordingly! We can't fool God by saying we believe something in our heads but not behave in a way that shows we really and truly believe it. Faith in God reveals itself in how we live our lives.", "Q": "Does having faith please God?", "A": "Why, yes, it does! In fact, in Hebrews 11:6, it says, \"And it is impossible to please God without faith. Anyone who wants to come to him must believe that God exists and that he rewards those who sincerely seek him.\" It seems like faith is a pretty big expectation from God, and He commends those who seek Him. Read the rest of Hebrews 11 and you'll find a veritable \"Who's Who\" of people whose faith pleased God.", "Q": "How did Daniel sleep in a den of lions without being afraid?", "A": "Daniel might have had some fear -- who wouldn't? -- but he also had plenty of faith in the Lord. He knew God was with him. So even though the lions might have been frightening, Daniel knew he could trust God. He knew God would protect him, and of course, God did protect him. You can't go wrong trusting in God. He'll never let you down.", "Q": "Why isn't everyone a Christian?", "A": "We don't know. But we do know that those of us who are Christians should tell others about Jesus. That way, they can accept Him and become Christians, too! Whether someone accepts Jesus is between them and God. But it's our responsibility to tell people about Him. So what are you waiting for?", "Q": "Why did Noah build the ark?", "A": "Because God told him to! Doing what God says to do is the only wise thing to do, even if everyone else is making fun of you for doing it. People sometimes don't know what's right, but God always does. If we listen to Him, we can't go wrong! And once the rains started to fall, you can bet that Noah was awfully glad he listened to God!", "Q": "How did David fight Goliath if he was so small?", "A": "David was very good at using a shepherd's sling. After all, he was a shepherd! David could throw a stone with lightning speed, which is how he killed Goliath. But more importantly, David didn't rely on his own abilities. He put his trust and hope in God, and God gave him the victory.", "Q": "Why was Abraham willing to kill his own son?", "A": "Because he knew that it was really God who had told him to do it. Abraham knew he could trust God totally. He wasn't afraid of doing what God asked him to do. He knew that obeying God always ends up working out. And, of course, in Abraham and Isaac's case, it did work out!", "Q": "Who/What is the devil?", "A": "The devil, also called Satan, is God's principal enemy. He used to be the archangel Lucifer, but he rebelled against God. The Bible tells us that Lucifer was the most amazing angel God had created. But somehow pride led him to believe that he was equal with God! So he decided he didn't want to obey God anymore. In fact, he didn't want to obey anyone besides himself! So he rebelled against God. When he did that, God cast him out of heaven forever and ever. Satan took a third of the angels with him. They became demons. So Satan is a fallen angel, dedicated to fighting against God.", "Q": "Does the devil have power like God does?", "A": "Absolutely not! Not even close. God is all-powerful. He created the entire universe and everything in it. Satan (the devil), on the other hand, was created! Of course he wasn't created by God as Satan, but before he rebelled and became wholly evil, he was an angel whom God had created. So there's no comparison between God and the devil, really. The devil is incredibly less powerful than God. Satan cannot create anything at all. He can only twist and destroy what God has created, just as he twisted and destroyed himself by rebelling against God. You can see how powerless Satan is compared to God when you think about how easy it is to destroy something but how difficult it is to create something. Destruction is always easier than creation, and Satan always destroys and never creates.", "Q": "Is the devil equal to God?", "A": "No! The devil is opposed to God, but he isn't even close to being as powerful as God. God created the whole universe and everything in it. The devil never created even one single thing. The devil cannot defeat God, and we already know how the story will end. Jesus will return, and the devil will be defeated once and for all.", "Q": "Does God listen to any prayer, big or small?", "A": "Absolutely! Some people think God is too busy to listen to small prayers -- but that's just not true! God is so big and so amazing that He is never too busy! Ever! Every single thing that is on our hearts is important to Him, so He listens to every one of our prayers, big and small. So turn to God whenever you have a need, a question or just want someone to talk to; He'll always be there for you!", "Q": "Why should I pray?", "A": "Praying is talking to God, plain and simple. When you love someone, you want to talk to them. Prayer is a two-way conversation that helps us to grow in our relationship with God. Through prayer, we talk to God and He talks to us. You can talk to God about everything -- what's happening in your life, how you feel, and what you need. Philippians 4:6 says, \"Don't worry about anything; instead, pray about everything. Tell God what you need, and thank him for all he has done.\"", "Q": "What is prayer?", "A": "Prayer is when we talk to God. We can talk to Him about something small or something big. We can talk to him in a way that's quiet and private, or we can talk to him with thousands of other people. But whenever we talk to God, we are praying. And God hears our prayers! It's an amazing concept! You can do it right this minute!", "Q": "Are long prayers better than short prayers?", "A": "No! God wants us to talk to Him about whatever is on our hearts -- and what matters most is that we are being honest when we talk to Him. If we pray a short prayer from the heart, it's worth much more than a long prayer that's trying to impress God or other people.", "Q": "Should I say \"thou\" and \"thee\" when I pray to God?", "A": "You don't have to speak formally when you talk to God. Remember, He's your heavenly father, and He loves you. So yes, you are speaking to the King of the Universe, but you are also speaking to the one Jesus called \"Abba\" -- which means \"Daddy.\"", "Q": "Why do people kneel when they pray?", "A": "Not everyone kneels when they pray, but some people do it to show an attitude of humility before God. We can approach God boldly -- because He is our heavenly Father -- but we must also approach Him with humility. And kneeling shows that we are approaching him with humility and reverence.", "Q": "Why should we pray to God?", "A": "Prayer is the most wonderful privilege imaginable! We would be crazy not to pray! God loves us deeply and cares about everything that concerns us, so praying to Him is a way of talking to Him and asking for His help. God is infinitely powerful, and He answers our prayers! Imagine that we are able to talk to the God of the universe! And that He wants us to talk to Him! It's really an exciting idea.", "Q": "Can we pray any time we want?", "A": "Yes, we can pray any time of the day or night. God is always listening and is never too busy for us. He wants to talk with us all the time, and He cares about whatever concerns us. We can even pray silently. God can hear silent prayers, too!", "Q": "Why does God let animals suffer from dangers in nature?", "A": "When Adam and Eve disobeyed God in the Garden of Eden, everything got messed up. That's what we call the Fall. Not only were human beings affected, but the whole of creation was affected. So there is evil and pain and suffering in the world. It's not part of God's plan, but through Jesus, everything is being redeemed. When Jesus returns and creates a new heaven and a new earth, animals and people will no longer suffer.", "Q": "When we die, do we become angels and get wings?", "A": "No. Human beings never become angels. Angels are heavenly beings, and we are terrestrial (earthly) beings. When we go to heaven, we'll still be human beings, not angels.", "Q": "Why does God let wars happen?", "A": "All of the bad things that happen in the world -- including wars -- are because of what Christians call \"the Fall.\" That's when Adam and Eve disobeyed God in the Garden of Eden by eating the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. When they did that, all of creation became broken. That one act of disobedience allowed sin and death and evil and suffering into the world. Of course, God never wanted that to happen! That's why he warned Adam and Eve not to eat of the fruit of that tree. But once they disobeyed, the whole world became broken, and we've been dealing with it ever since. Wars are one example. But remember, that's why God sent Jesus to Earth -- to undo the damage that Adam and Eve did and to begin the process of redeeming our broken world! One reason that Jesus is called the Prince of Peace is that, in His Kingdom, there is no war.", "Q": "Why do people die?", "A": "In the Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve disobeyed God and ate the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, they allowed death to come into the world. God never wanted that to happen! That's why he told Adam and Eve not to eat of the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. But Satan deceived Adam and Eve, and they ate it. Ever since then, death has been a part of our world, along with suffering and evil and sadness. That's the bad news. But there's good news! God didn't leave the situation that way! He had a plan to defeat death, and of course, Jesus is the main part of that plan. So through Jesus we can defeat death! If we believe in Him, we will live forever, just as God intended all along. So even if we die physically -- which we will -- God raises us up from the dead, just as Jesus rose from the dead. As I said, that's Good News. The best news there is!", "Q": "Will I go to heaven when I die?", "A": "The Bible says that all who call on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ will be saved. So if you ask Him into your heart and make Him the Lord of your life, then you will be with Him in heaven. Remember the thief on the cross next to Jesus (Luke:23:42-43)? He was a sinner, but just before he died, he said to Jesus: \"Remember me when you come into your kingdom!\" And Jesus answered, \"I assure you, today you will be with me in paradise.\" So going to heaven has nothing to do with whether we deserve it, because none of us deserves it. But if we cry out to Jesus and ask Him to help us, He will. Only Jesus opens the door for us to go to heaven. If we ask Him to save us and to forgive our sins and really mean it, He will do it, and heaven is ours!", "Q": "Why do some people die before they are old?", "A": "All of the bad things that happen in the world -- including death -- are because of what Christians call \"the Fall.\" That's when Adam and Eve disobeyed God in the Garden of Eden by eating the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. When they did that, all of creation became broken. That one act of disobedience allowed sin and death and evil and suffering into the world. Of course, God never wanted that to happen! That's why he warned Adam and Eve not to eat of the fruit of that tree. But once they disobeyed, the whole world became broken, and we've been dealing with it ever since. People dying -- and especially people dying young -- are one example. But remember, that's why God sent Jesus to Earth -- to undo the damage that Adam and Eve did and to begin the process of redeeming our broken world! God says that when we accept Jesus, we will all live forever with Him in Heaven.", "Q": "What are angels?", "A": "The word \"angel\" is just a Greek word that means \"messenger\" -- so angels are God's messengers. The Bible says that God created heavenly beings and terrestrial (earthly) beings. We are terrestrial beings and angels are heavenly beings. Even though we can't see them, angels play a big part in life. In the Bible, angels are mentioned well over 200 times! Angels can be both good and bad, and there are different types of angels such as archangels, cherubim and seraphim. Michael, Gabriel and Lucifer are probably three of the most well known angels from the Bible.", "Q": "Where did angels come from?", "A": "God made them! The word \"angel\" is the Greek word for \"messenger,\" so angels are God's messengers. The Bible says in Colossians 1:16 that, \"For by Him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities all things have been created by Him and for Him.\" Angels are normally associated with being invisible, but they can also take on the appearance of men. In Hebrews 13:2, it says, \"Don't forget to show hospitality to strangers, for some who have done this have entertained angels without realizing it!\" So be on guard; you never know when you might be entertaining angels. Pretty cool, huh?", "Q": "Do I really have to love my enemies?", "A": "Yes. That's what Jesus commands us to do! But that doesn't mean we have to feel lovey-dovey toward them. According to the Bible, love has to do with how we act, not how we feel. So God commands us to behave in a way that treats others the way we would want them to treat us -- even if we don't feel like it. So if someone in your school is really getting on your nerves, you're not expected to feel mushy, lovey-dovey feelings for them! But you are expected to treat them in a way that exhibits the love of God for them.", "Q": "Why do God and Jesus love people?", "A": "God is our heavenly Father, and we are all His children. So just as parents love their children, God loves all of us--and even more so. We are the only creatures in the whole universe created in God's image, so we are uniquely important to Him.", "Q": "How can I love my enemies?", "A": "According to the Bible, love is not a feeling; it's an action. So loving our enemies doesn't mean that we feel lovey-dovey toward them. It means that we treat them as human beings who are made in the image of God. Jesus commands us to love our enemies and treat them fairly, just as we would want to be treated fairly.", "Q": "Do I need to honor my parents?", "A": "King David challenged Solomon to be a courageous man, obey God's commands, and follow all His ways. If he did this, Solomon would be successful in all he did. We read that Solomon loved the Lord and followed all the decrees of his father David. (1 Kings 2:1-3). Solomon was successful because of his obedience. He had more wisdom and wealth than any king on earth because of God's blessings upon his life. (1 Kings 3: 12-13). It is important for us to honor our parents; so important that God made it one of the Ten Commandments. Ephesians 6:1-3 says, \"Children, obey your parents because you belong to the Lord, for this is the right thing to do. \"Honor your father and mother.\" This is the first commandment with a promise: If you honor your father and mother, \"things will go well for you, and you will have a long life on the earth.\" As believers in Jesus, we belong to the Lord and must show honor to our parents. How do we do this? To honor someone means not only to obey, but also to show respect with our actions and words. To honor in a way that pleases the Lord, we must not only obey but also do it with a right attitude and heart. That means without grumbling and complaining! The Greek word for honor means \"to prize and value.\" Jesus modeled what it means to prize and value parents. When Jesus was twelve years old, He honored His parents, Joseph and Mary, when they found Him in the Temple. \"Then he returned to Nazareth with them and was obedient to them. And his mother stored all these things in her heart.\" (Luke 2:51). Jesus rebuked the religious leaders for their disregard of God's commandment to honor parents. They taught it was more important to follow church traditions than to show honor to their parents! (Matthew 15:3-6). Solomon wrote in the book of Proverbs about honoring your parents. \"My child, listen when your father corrects you. Don't neglect your mother's instruction. What you learn from them will crown you with grace and be a chain of honor around your neck.\" (Proverbs 3:8-9). When we honor our parents, listening and obeying what they say, we will receive wisdom, grace, and honor!", "Q": "Do I need to love others?", "A": "God came to Solomon in a dream and told Solomon he could have anything he wanted. Solomon did not selfishly ask for riches and fame. Solomon said, \"Give me an understanding heart so that I can govern your people well and know the difference between right and wrong. For who by himself is able to govern this great people of yours?\" (1 Kings 3:9). Solomon's prayer was to receive God's help to rule God's people. He wanted to make good decisions and judge according to God's Word and will. Solomon loved and cared for God's people. He cared enough to make this request above anything else he could have asked for! To truly love God, we must also love His people. There are no exceptions! 1 John 4:7-8 says, \"Dear friends, let us continue to love one another, for love comes from God. Anyone who loves is a child of God and knows God. But anyone who does not love does not know God, for God is love.\" God is not just filled with love; He IS love; the source of love! Think of what these verses say - If we don't love one another, we do not know God! This Passage makes it clear that loving God and others go hand and hand. Jesus replied, \"'you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind.' This is the first and greatest commandment. A second is equally important: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'\" (Matthew 22:37-39). How important is it to love God and others? Jesus said it was the second most important commandment and just as important as the first commandment! God is love; so since we are made in His image, we were created to love too! (1 John 4:16; Genesis 1:27).", "Q": "What does Jesus say about love?", "A": "Love is a big deal! Jesus shared His views on love. It's recorded in the book of Matthew where He said, \"You must love the LORD your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind. This is the first and greatest commandment. A second is equally important: Love your neighbor as yourself\" (22:37-39). Living for God is pretty straightforward. Jesus summed up how you should live your life everyday \" loving God and loving others. Some people find it hard to love others. In fact, you might have someone in your life that is \"hard to love.\" But if you know Jesus as your Savior, you can turn to Him and ask Him to help you love that person. Trust Jesus to help you, and He will see you through it! Remember that Jesus' perfect love will cast out all fear. That's Good News!", "Q": "Why is it so hard to love your enemies?", "A": "No person has natural feelings of love for an enemy. So loving our enemies is extremely difficult. In fact, without God's supernatural help, it's quite impossible. But God gives us the power to do what's right even when we don't feel like it.", "Q": "How can I live an honest and true life?", "A": "In 1 Kings 3:6, Solomon spoke to the Lord in a dream about his father. \"Solomon replied, \"You showed great and faithful love to your servant my father, David, because he was honest and true and faithful to you.\" As a follower of Christ, wouldn't that be the ultimate compliment to receive? Any godly parent would be thrilled to hear their child describe them this way. To be honest, true, and faithful is the very definition of integrity. Acts 13:22 says, \"But God removed Saul and replaced him with David, a man about whom God said, 'I have found David son of Jesse, a man after my own heart. He will do everything I want him to do.'\" Was David perfect? No! He committed many sins including adultery and murder. But, David repented before God and pleaded for forgiveness and mercy. Yes, David sinned, but God restored him and blessed his life. It was not the failures that Solomon remembered; it was David's passionate pursuit of God! Here is what God later told Solomon. \"As for you, if you will follow me with integrity and godliness, as David your father did, obeying all my commands, decrees, and regulations, then I will establish the throne of your dynasty over Israel forever.\" (1 Kings 9: 4-5). David had sinned, but God still used him as an example of integrity, godliness, and obedience. So, how can we live a life that is honest, true, and faithful? The answer is, we can't \" on our own! We need help, and God gives us help by from the Holy Spirit who lives in us. God's Spirit leads and guides us in all truth (John 16:13). When we choose to follow His directions, we will walk in integrity. The Holy Spirit also produces God's traits, fruit, or characteristics in us! \"But the Holy Spirit produces this kind of fruit in our lives: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. There is no law against these things!\" (Galatians 5:22-23). Do you want to be known as honest, true, and faithful? Listen to God's Spirit that lives in you\" He will guide you in the truth of God's Word so you can live a life of integrity!"