"profile name": "Joshua", "profile description": "Joshua was Israel's new leader following Moses' death. It was now time to conquer the land God promised His people. The commander of the Lord's army appeared to Joshua so he knew God was with him. Joshua bravely followed God's instructions to cross the Jordan River and march around Jericho. The walls collapsed and God gave them the city!", "profile bible infoscan": "Joshua's name was Hoshea, the son of Nun, of the tribe of Ephraim, but Moses called him Joshua (\"Numbers:13:8\"). He was born as a slave in Egypt about 40 years before Moses led the Israelites out of Egypt. Joshua was Moses' military commander when the Israelites defeated the Amalekites (\"Exodus:17:8\"). He was one of the twelve spies of Israel, who along with Caleb, brought back a good report to Moses about the land of Canaan. They encouraged the Israelites to go take the land God had promised them (Numbers 13-14). Joshua and Caleb were the only two spies that God allowed to enter and possess the Promised Land after wandering in the wilderness for 40 years. Joshua was also a close aide to Moses and accompanied him part of the way up Mount Sinai when Moses received The Ten Commandments from God (\"Exodus:32:15-20\"). Before Moses' death, he made Joshua the leader of the Israelites as God had commanded. The Bible says that Joshua was filled with the Spirit of wisdom because Moses laid his hands on him (\"Deuteronomy:34:9\"). God told Joshua that He would be with him just as He was with Moses. He promised to give Joshua victory over the enemy and that no one could stand against him. The Israelites promised to follow and obey Joshua as they had obeyed Moses (Joshua 1). At the Jordan River, God told Joshua He would begin to make him a great leader in the eyes of the Israelites. By God's command, Joshua ordered the priests to carry the Ark of the Covenant to the edge of the Jordan River. The waters divided and the Israelites walked across on dry land just as they had for Moses at the Red Sea (Joshua 3). God told Joshua to take twelve stones from the dry land in the middle of the Jordan River and build an altar to God where the Israelites made camp. This altar was built to remember the miracle God performed that day. Joshua also built an altar with twelve stones in the middle of the Jordan River before the water returned (Joshua 4). \"That day the LORD made Joshua a great leader in the eyes of all the Israelites, and for the rest of his life they revered him as much as they had revered Moses.\" (\"Joshua:4:14\"). On the other side of the Jordan, near the walled city of Jericho, Joshua saw a man standing in front of him with a sword in His hand. This was the commander of the Lord's army! Joshua fell with his face to the ground in reverence and asked how he could serve Him. \"The commander of the LORD's army replied, \"Take off your sandals, for the place where you are standing is holy.\" And Joshua did as he was told.\" (\"Joshua:5:13\") Following God's specific instructions, Joshua led the Israelites to march around Jericho. \"On the seventh day the Israelites got up at dawn and marched around the town as they had done before. But this time they went around the town seven times. The seventh time around, as the priests sounded the long blast on their horns, Joshua commanded the people, 'Shout! For the Lord has given you the town!'\" (\"Joshua:6:15\"). \"When the people heard the sound of the rams' horns, they shouted as loud as they could. Suddenly, the walls of Jericho collapsed. The Israelites charged straight into the town and captured it\" (\"Joshua:6:20\"). Joshua told the two spies to go and save Rahab and her family to fulfill their promise to her. (Joshua 6:22-25) Joshua pronounced a curse of the Lord upon anyone who tried to rebuild the town of Jericho! (Joshua 6:26). God confirmed the words of Joshua by taking the lives of two men who began the rebuilding of Jericho. (\"1 Kings:16:34\"). After Jericho was defeated, Joshua led the people of Israel to conquer the Promised Land. When the Israelites fought a battle at Gibeon, Joshua asked God to cause the sun and moon to stand still so that he could finish the battle in daylight (\"Joshua:10:12\"). God also fought for the Israelites in this battle (\"Joshua:10:11\"). Joshua watched over the division of land to the different tribes of Israel. (\"Joshua:18:10\"). He died at the age of 110. This was 25 years after he entered into the Promised Land. He was buried in Timnath-serah (\"Joshua:24:28\"). Many Bible scholars view Joshua's life as a signpost that points to Jesus. The Hebrew name for Joshua is Yehoshua. Jesus' Hebrew name is Yeshua. Joshua's crossing of the Jordan is followed by Jesus' baptism in the Jordan River. Joshua's military campaigns point to Jesus' battles with Satan. Joshua's following Moses as leader of Israel points to Jesus fulfilling the Law of Moses.", "profile life lessons": "If we know that God is with us, then we know that He is for us, like he was with Joshua.", "profile key scripture": "So the Lord was with Joshua, and his reputation spread throughout the land."
"profile name": "Three Visitors", "profile description": "Most folks believe these were three heavenly beings in human bodies. Some think they were all created angels; others think that one of them was the Son of God, the Angel of the covenant. Through these visitors, the Lord promised Abraham that he and his wife Sarah would have a son, even though they were both very old.", "profile bible infoscan": "Abraham was waiting to entertain any weary traveler, for they did not have any hotels or inns like we have today. While Abraham was sitting outside his tent, he saw three men coming near. Many scholars believe these were three heavenly beings in human bodies. Some think they were all created angels; others think that one of them was the Son of God, the Angel of the covenant. Through these visitors, the Lord promised Abraham that he and his wife Sarah would have a son, even though they were both very old (\"Genesis:18:1\").", "profile life lessons": "Hebrews 13:2 says \"Don't forget to show hospitality to strangers, for some who have done this have entertained angels without realizing it!\"", "profile key scripture": "The LORD appeared again to Abraham near the oak grove belonging to Mamre. One day Abraham was sitting at the entrance to his tent during the hottest part of the day. 2 He looked up and noticed three men standing nearby. When he saw them, he ran to meet them and welcomed them, bowing low to the ground."
"profile name": "Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego", "profile description": "Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were three Hebrew men who trusted God and refused to bow down to worship a gold statue. They stood up boldly before King Nebuchadnezzar even when they faced sure death from the blazing furnace. God supernaturally protected the men and they were unharmed by the fire- they didn't even smell of smoke! The king was impressed and amazed by what had happened, and promoted the three men to even higher positions in Babylon!", "profile bible infoscan": "Who were these three young Hebrew men that stood up to King Nebuchadnezzar? They refused to obey his order to bow and worship his gold statue even when they faced certain death in the blazing furnace! This took place about 600 years before Jesus was born. During the third year of King Jehoiakim's reign in Judah, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon came to Jerusalem and attacked it. The Lord gave him victory over the King of Judah and permitted him to take tens of thousands of Israelites into captivity. Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, were among those captured. The king ordered Ashpenaz, his chief of staff, to \"Select only strong, healthy, and good-looking young men, make sure they are well versed in every branch of learning, are gifted with knowledge and good judgment, and are suited to serve in the royal palace. Train these young men in the language and literature of Babylon.\" The king assigned them a daily ration of food and wine from his own kitchens. They were to be trained for three years, and then they would enter the royal service. (\"Daniel:1:4-5\"). The four young Jews of royal or noble birth from the tribe of Judah were among those selected to serve the king. We also find out in Daniel 1:7 that their names were changed. \"The chief of staff renamed them with these Babylonian names: Daniel was called Belteshazzar, Hananiah was called Shadrach, Mishael was called Meshach, and Azariah was called Abednego.\" Their Hebrew names were Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Hananiah means \"God who is gracious.\" Mishael means \"Who is like God?\" It also means \"to feed\" or \"to provide\" - as in how a husband provides for his family. Azariah appropriately means \"God has helped.\" The Hebrew men were determined not to eat the king's royal food and wine to not defile themselves according to Jewish law. They asked the king's chief of staff to allow them to instead eat vegetables and water for ten days. After that time, he could compare them to the other men who ate the king's diet. The chief of staff reluctantly agreed to the test. (\"Daniel:1:8-14\"). \"At the end of the ten days, Daniel and his three friends looked healthier and better nourished than the young men who had been eating the food assigned by the king. So after that, the attendant fed them only vegetables instead of the food and wine provided for the others.\" (\"Daniel:1:16\"). After the training period, all of the men were brought before the king. Daniel 1:19-20 says, \"The king talked with them, and no one impressed him as much as Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. So they entered the royal service. Whenever the king consulted them in any matter requiring wisdom and balanced judgment, he found them ten times more capable than any of the magicians and enchanters in his entire kingdom.\" When Daniel successfully interpreted King Nebuchadnezzar's dream, the king was thrilled and rewarded him. Daniel did not forget his three friends! \"Then the king appointed Daniel to a high position and gave him many valuable gifts. He made Daniel ruler over the whole province of Babylon, as well as chief over all his wise men. At Daniel's request, the king appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to be in charge of all the affairs of the province of Babylon, while Daniel remained in the king's court.\" (\"Daniel:2:48-49\"). All seemed to be going smoothly until the king built a huge gold statue. He required everyone to bow down and worship it whenever the music played. Anyone who disobeyed would be thrown into a blazing furnace! Some of the king's wise men, who were no doubt jealous of Daniel and his friends, noticed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refused to bow and worship. They had the nerve to defy the king's order at the dedication of the prized new statue! They gladly informed the king of their rebellion. He was furious and demanded that the three men come before him. Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego did not back down and said: \"O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter. If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve is able to save us from it, and He will rescue us from your hand, O king. But even if He does not, we want you to know, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold you have set up\" (\"Daniel:3:16-18\"). Nebuchadnezzar's face was distorted in rage! He ordered that the furnace be heated seven times hotter than usual. Soldiers were ordered to firmly bind the fully clothed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and cast them in the blazing furnace. Because the king in his anger had demanded such a hot fire, the flames killed the soldiers as they threw the three men into the furnace. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, securely tied, fell into the roaring flames. (\"Daniel:3:1-25\"). Was the story over? Not with God in control! As the king watched the execution, he suddenly jumped up, amazed. There were now four people in the fire walking around unharmed! The fourth person looked like a god! The king then said, \"Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out! Come here!\" (\"Daniel:3:26\"). The young men then emerged from the fiery furnace not even smelling of smoke. King Nebuchadnezzar the exclaimed, \"Praise to the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego! He sent his angel to rescue his servants who trusted in him. They defied the king's command and were willing to die rather than serve or worship any god except their own God\" (\"Daniel:3:28\"). Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to even higher positions in the province of Babylon. (\"Daniel:3:30\").", "profile life lessons": "Take a stand for God.", "profile key scripture": "\"But even if he doesn't, we want to make it clear to you, Your Majesty, that we will never serve your gods or worship the gold statue you have set up.\""
"profile name": "The Spirit of God", "profile description": "The Spirit of God is the Holy Spirit. He filled the believers who were in the upstairs room in Jerusalem on the Day of Pentecost. The Spirit filled the believers with power to tell others about Jesus and with God's love to live in harmony with one another. The Holy Spirit is at work today and lives in all of God's children. He fills us with power to witness and to live according to God's Word.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Spirit of God is the Holy Spirit. He is the third person of the Trinity (Three-in-One God). There is God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. The Hebrew word for the Spirit of God is \"Ruach Elohim,\" which means \"breath\" or \"breathing out.\" Breath is a good word to describe God because breath represents life, a living creative force. When God created the heaven and the earth, the \"Spirit of God was hovering over the surface of the waters\" (\"Genesis:1:2\"), and \"then the Lord God formed the man from the dust of the ground. He breathed the breath of life into the man's nostrils and the man became a living person\" (\"Genesis:2:7\"). The Spirit of God was present throughout history. God told Moses he had \"filled Bezalel with the Spirit of God, giving him great wisdom, ability, and expertise in all kinds of craft\" (\"Exodus:31:3\"), which he would use in the building of the Tabernacle and the Ark. The Spirit of God also came upon Balaam (\"Genesis:1:2\" , \"Numbers:24:2\"), Saul (\"1 Samuel:11:6\"), messengers (\"1 Samuel:19:20\"), Azariah (\"2 Chronicles:15:1\"), and Zechariah (\"2 Chronicles:24:20\"). When Jesus was baptized by John, the Spirit of God came down like a dove and settled on Him while God's voice spoke, \"This is my dearly loved Son, who brings me great joy\" (\"Matthew:3:16-17\"). When Jesus ascended into heaven after His death and resurrection, Jesus promised the gift of the Holy Spirit and His power (\"Acts:1:8\"). The work of the Spirit of God is to convict us of sin (\"John:16:8\"), to live in believers (\"John:14:15-17\"), to guide believers in all truth (\"John:16:13\"), to give spiritual gifts to believers (\"1 Corinthians:12\"), to reveal the deep things of God, and to strengthen, comfort, encourage, guide, and empower the children of God. In his letter to the Romans, Paul encourages the Christians to live in the Spirit: \"For all who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God\" (\"Romans:8:14\"). The apostle John warns Christians to be aware of false prophets who do not have the Spirit of God (\"1 John:4:2-4\"). In the Book of Revelation, the phrase \"seven Spirits of God\" or the \"sevenfold Spirit of God\" is mentioned four times (\"Revelation:1:4\" , \"Revelation:3:1\" , \"Revelation:4:5\" , \"Revelation:5:6\"). Seven is considered God's number of perfection, and there are different interpretations of the phrase \"Spirits of God.\" In \"Isaiah:11:2\" , the work of the Spirit is described as seven-fold: the spirit of the Lord, wisdom, understanding, counsel, might, knowledge, the fear of the Lord. These \"seven Spirits\" are interpreted by some scholars as being the Seven Spirits of God described in the Book of Revelation. The Holy Spirit works in our lives to perfect us. In \"2 Peter:1:5-11\" , the sevenfold character of God is described through Christ: moral excellence, knowledge, self-control, patient endurance, godliness, brotherly affection, and love for everyone. Some scholars believe that these refer to the seven Spirits of God.", "profile life lessons": "Allow the Spirit of God to bring you to Christ, to live in you, and to work in your life.", "profile key scripture": "\"But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere - In Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria and to the ends of the earth.\""
"profile name": "Thomas", "profile description": "Soon after Jesus rose from the dead, He appeared to the disciples. One of the disciples, Thomas, was not present and refused to believe that Jesus had appeared to the eleven other apostles, until he could see and feel the wounds received by Jesus on the cross.", "profile bible infoscan": "Thomas was also called Didymus (Greek) and nicknamed \"the Twin\". He was one of the twelve apostles of Christ. (\"Matthew:10:3\" ; \"John:11:16\"). Many people know Thomas by another nickname - \"Doubting Thomas.\" Thomas received this name by not believing the disciples' story about seeing Christ after His resurrection. (\"John:20:25\"). Regardless of his nickname, there was no doubt that Thomas loved Jesus! When Jesus planned to return to Judea to see Lazarus, the disciples cautioned Jesus. \"But his disciples objected. \"Rabbi,\" they said, \"only a few days ago the people in Judea were trying to stone you. Are you going there again?\" After seeing that Jesus was determined to go, Thomas boldly showed his love and loyalty. Thomas, nicknamed the Twin, said to his fellow disciples, \"Let's go, too - and die with Jesus.\" (\"John:11:9\"). At the Last Supper, Jesus shared with His disciples that He was going to heaven to prepare a home for them. Jesus said that they knew the way to heaven. Thomas and the other disciples didn't understand what Jesus was saying. \"No, we don't know, Lord,\" Thomas said. \"We have no idea where you are going, so how can we know the way?\" (\"John:14:1-5\"). Soon after Jesus rose from the dead, He appeared to ten of the disciples. Thomas was not present. The disciples then shared with Thomas that they had seen the Lord. Thomas refused to believe until he could see and feel the wounds received by Jesus on the cross. (\"John:20:19-25\"). Eight days later the disciples were together again, and this time Thomas was with them. The doors were locked; but suddenly, as before, Jesus was standing among them. \"Peace be with you,\" he said. Then he said to Thomas, \"Put your finger here, and look at my hands. Put your hand into the wound in my side. Don't be faithless any longer. Believe!\" \"My Lord and my God!\" Thomas exclaimed. Then Jesus told him, \"You believe because you have seen me. Blessed are those who believe without seeing me.\" (John 20:26-29). Thomas was not a doubter any longer! Thomas is mentioned by name only twice again in the Bible. He was with the other disciples as they fished on the Sea of Galilee when Jesus appeared to them. He is listed with those present in the upstairs room as they waited for the promise of the Spirit. (\"John:21:2\" ; \"Acts:1:13\"). Nothing is recorded in the Bible about Thomas after He received the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. Church tradition has it that he died as a martyr.", "profile life lessons": "Even if you doubt like Thomas, God will not give up on you.", "profile key scripture": "\"I won't believe it unless I see the nail wounds in his hands, put my fingers into them, and place my hand into the wound in his side.\""
"profile name": "Altar", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The Hebrew word for altar means \"a place of slaughter or sacrifice.\" An altar is a table, platform, or elevated place on which a priest placed a sacrifice as an offering to God. The word 'altar' is used 433 times in the Bible, so it must be pretty important. The first altar was built by Noah after the Flood (\"Genesis:8:20\"). Several altars are mention in Genesis in connection with Abraham. His first altar at Shechem seemed to be a symbol of his possession of the land (\"Genesis:12:7\"). At his altars between Bethel and Ai (\"Genesis:12:8\"), and at Hebron (\"Genesis:13:18\"), Abraham sacrificed animals and called upon the name of the Lord. His last altar was built on top of a mountain in Moriah (\"Genesis:22:9\") where he intended to sacrifice Isaac. Not all the altars in the Old Testament were used to offer sacrifices. They were also used to remind the Israelites of important events in their history (\"Joshua:22:26-29\"). During the days of Moses, there were two altars that the priests used: the altar of burnt offering (\"Exodus:27:1-8\" and \"Exodus:40:6\") and the altar of incense (\"Exodus:30:1-10\"). No altars are recognized in the New Testament Church. The 'altar' in \"Hebrews:13:10\" refers to Jesus as being the altar of each believer.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"When they arrived at the place where God had told him to go, Abraham built an altar and arranged the wood on it. Then he tied his son, Isaac, and laid him on the altar on top of the wood.\""
"profile name": "The Cross", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The cross was an upright wooden stake or post with a crossbeam. It was used as an instrument of humiliation, torture, and execution for criminals. It was the form of execution used by the Romans in New Testament times. Those sentenced to death on a cross were usually beaten with leather lashes. Victims were then forced to carry the upper crossbeam to the execution site where the central stake was already set up. After being tied with ropes or nailed to the crossbeam through the wrists, the victim was then hoisted with the crossbeam against that stake. A block or peg was sometimes fastened to the stake as a seat, and the feet were then tied or nailed to the stake. Death by suffocation or exhaustion normally followed only after a period of agonizing pain. Jesus was crucified on a cross. The cross is a symbol of His willingness to suffer for our sins so that our relationship with God can be restored. We are reconciled to God (\"2 Corinthians:5:19\" , \"Colossians:1:20\"). It is thus a symbol of Jesus' love and God's power to save.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "And through him God reconciled everything to himself. He made peace with everything in heaven and on earth by means of Christ's blood on the cross."
"profile name": "Lucifer", "profile description": "Make no mistake: God is the hero in our story, but there is also a villain - and his name is Satan. In Isaiah 14:13-14, we learn that Lucifer became a fallen angel and was transformed into Satan. Satan certainly exists today, but the good news is that he has been defeated by the death and resurrection of Jesus!", "profile bible infoscan": "Make no mistake: God is the hero in our story, but there is also a villain - and his name is Satan. In \"Isaiah:14:13-14\" , we learn that Lucifer became a fallen angel and was transformed into Satan. Another Old Testament passage gives us a picture of Satan's original position, his rebellion and his fall from heaven (\"Ezekiel:28:11-19\"). The name Satan means \"adversary\" or \"enemy.\" In the New Testament, another common name for Satan is the devil, which means \"slanderer\" or \"false accuser.\" Other titles include: - the tempter (\"1 Thessalonians:3:5\") - Beelzebub (\"Matthew:12:24\" - NKJV) - the wicked/evil one (\"Matthew:13:19\" , \"Matthew:13:38\") - the ruler/prince of this world (\"John:12:31\") - the god of this age/this evil world (\"2 Corinthians:4:4\") - Belial (\"2 Corinthians:6:15\" - NKJV) - the commander of the powers of the unseen world (\"Ephesians:2:2\") - the Accuser of our brothers and sisters (\"Revelation:12:10\") Satan's different names reveal what he is like. It helps us to understand the way he works: Temptation - He tempts people to sin against God (\"Matthew:4:1\"). Deception - He lies and makes the truth appear false (\"John:8:44\"). He blinds our understanding of God's Word and the Gospel of salvation through Christ (\"2 Corinthians:4:4\"). Anything that helps him oppose God's rule in the world (\"Ephesians:6:11-18\" , \"1 Peter:5:8-9\"). Satan (Lucifer) certainly exists today, but the good news is that he has been defeated by the death and resurrection of Jesus! God gives Christians the power to withstand his attacks. Satan's final defeat will come when Jesus returns and Satan is cast into the lake of fire (\"Revelation:20:1-10\"). That is the moment that the hero will defeat the villain once and for all!", "profile life lessons": "Lucifer was filled with pride, which led to his downfall, so be careful not to be filled with pride as it could lead to you failing as well.", "profile key scripture": "Pride goes before destruction and haughtiness before a fall."
"profile name": "Passover Lamb", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The final plague was the death of all Egypt's firstborns. To protect the Israelites, God commanded each family to kill a lamb and paint its blood on the sides and top of the door frames of their houses (I know--gross but effective). The lamb had to be a young: a one-year-old male, without any defect (\"Exodus:12:5\"). God instructed the Israelites in detail about what they had to do with the chosen animal. He also told them why. When the angel of death visited Egyptian homes, he would pass over Israelite homes with blood on the door frames. In these Israelite homes, the firstborn children would not die (\"Exodus:12:23\"). These events demonstrate how, in crazy times of calamity, God will always protect His people and set them apart. Jews today still celebrate the Passover and Feast of Unleavened Bread as instructed by God. This celebration serves as a reminder of how God brought them out of slavery (\"Exodus:12:17\"). However, to the Christian, the Passover is a \"picture\" of how Jesus, the Lamb of God (\"John:1:29\"), died in our place to save us from being slaves of sin in our lives (\"1 Corinthians:5:7\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "The next day, John saw Jesus coming towards him and said, 'Look! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the word!'"
"profile name": "Michael", "profile description": "Michael is one mighty angel! Meeting him was pretty \"heavenly.\"", "profile bible infoscan": "Michael is known as the archangel, or chief of the angels. His name means \"who is like God.\" He is the commander-in-chief of God's army of angels who fights against the devil (or Satan, the chief of the fallen angels) (\"Revelation:12:7-12\") and who protects Israel. Michael's name is mentioned in two other places in the Bible: Daniel also mentions Michael in his one vision (\"Daniel:10:13-21\"), and we read about Michael in \"Jude:1:9\" .", "profile life lessons": "Stand up for what is right.", "profile key scripture": "Then there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and his angels. And the dragon lost the battle, and he and his angels were forced out of heaven."
"profile name": "Golden Calf", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "While Moses was on Mount Sinai receiving the Ten Commandments, the impatient Israelites were worshiping an idol. The golden calf was an idolatrous image of a young bull which was probably made of wood and overlaid with gold. The gold came from the gold earrings of the Israelites. Instead of worshiping the one true God, the Israelites bowed down and sacrificed to the golden calf (\"Exodus:32:8\"). Then, \"Moses took the calf they had made and burned it. Then he ground it into powder and threw it into the water, and forced the people to drink it\" (\"Exodus:32:20\"). No made-man idols like the golden calf last, but God is everlasting. He is eternal.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"I am the LORD your God, who rescued you from the land of Egypt, the place of your slavery. You must not have any other god but me. You must not make for yourself an idol of any kind or an image of anything in the heavens or on the earth or in the sea. You must not bow down to them or worship them, for I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God who will not tolerate your affection for any other gods.\""
"profile name": "Hophni and Phinehas", "profile description": "The Book of 1 Samuel describes Hophni as an officiating priest at the sanctuary of Shiloh, along with his brother, Phinehas. In the Biblical narrative, Hophni and Phinehas are criticized for engaging in illicit behavior, such as taking the best portion of sacrifices for themselves. Their misdeeds led to a divine curse being put on them. They both died on the same day, during a battle against the Philistines at Ebenezer.", "profile bible infoscan": "Two brothers, Hophni and Phinehas, were Israelite priests at the Tabernacle in Shiloh. They were sons of the priest Eli. The Bible calls them scoundrels who had no respect for the Lord or for their positions as priests (\"1 Samuel:2:12\"). The two men were wicked and committed terrible sins as they officiated the worship and the offering of sacrifices by the Israelites at the Tabernacle. The sons took by force the portion of meat that was reserved for God and ate it themselves. They also took the fat portion of the meat that was supposed to be burnt before the Lord. This was forbidden according to God's law. The sin of Eli's sons was very serious in the Lord's sight! (Leviticus 7:30-34; 1 Samuel 2:12 - 17). The Bible says that Eli was very old, but he knew about the sins of his sons and did not restrain them. Eli heard the bad reports from the people who told him the wicked deeds his sons were doing at the Tabernacle. Eli confronted them with their sin and told them to stop; however, it was not enough in God's eyes. In 1 Samuel 3:13 the Lord spoke to Samuel about Eli: \"I have warned him that judgment is coming upon his family forever, because his sons are blaspheming God and he hasn't disciplined them.\" Hophni and Phinehas would not listen to their father. The Bible tells us that God was already planning for them to die because of their disobedience, disrespect, and sin. God then sent a prophet to Eli to declare judgment on his family for the sin of his sons. (\"1 Samuel:2:22\"). God also revealed that Eli wasn't completely innocent! Eli also enjoyed the meat from the offerings that belonged to the Lord! 1 Samuel 2: 29 says, \"So why do you scorn my sacrifices and offerings? Why do you give your sons more honor than you give me - for you and they have become fat from the best offerings of my people Israel!\" The prophet told Eli that Hophni and Phinehas would both die on the same day to prove that His words were true. (\"1 Samuel:2:24\"). God then later spoke to Eli through Samuel and confirmed to Eli that He was about to do as He had warned; judgment was coming to Eli's family! 1 Samuel 3:14 says, \"So I have vowed that the sins of Eli and his sons will never be forgiven by sacrifices or offerings.\" That tells us just how wicked Hophni and Phinehas' were and how much they angered God! The Israelites went to battle against the Philistines. Hophni and Phinehas were with the people who brought the Ark of God from Shiloh to the battle. 30,000 Israelite soldiers were killed that day including Hophni and Phinehas. The Ark of God was also captured by the Philistines. Upon hearing the news of his sons and the Ark of God, Eli fell off his chair backwards and died. God's judgment came to pass as He said. Phinehas' wife was pregnant wen she heard the news of her husband's death, Eli's death and the capture of the Ark. She went into labor and died after she gave birth. (1 Samuel 4:1-20). \"She named the child Ichabod (which means \"Where is the glory?\"), for she said, \"Israel's glory is gone.\" She named him this because the Ark of God had been captured and because her father-in-law and husband were dead. Then she said, \"The glory has departed from Israel, for the Ark of God has been captured.\" (\"1 Samuel:4:21\").", "profile life lessons": "We must be careful that our hearts not become hardened against God.", "profile key scripture": "And to prove that what I have said will come true, I will cause your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, to die on the same day!"
"profile name": "King Saul Young", "profile description": "Saul became the first king of Israel, but soon he lost favor with God. Saul disobeyed God. Samuel had to tell him that God had rejected him as king. That couldn't have been a fun conversation (1 Samuel 13:15).", "profile bible infoscan": "Saul's name means \"the one asked for\" or \"the one asking.\" He was born to Kish, a wealthy farmer of the tribe of Benjamin. As a young man, he was head and shoulders taller than most men, but in spite of being good-looking, he was quite shy. When he was anointed king by the prophet Samuel at Ramah, he was surprised. He was filled with the Spirit of God, but he didn't tell anyone about what happened. \"1 Samuel:9:1-27\" , \"1 Samuel:10:1-27\" , \"1 Samuel:11:12-15\" Samuel retired as a political leader but remained influential as a priest and prophet. Saul became the first king of Israel, but soon he lost favor with God. Saul disobeyed God and Samuel had to tell him that God had rejected him as king (\"1 Samuel:13:13-14\"). It was at this point that David was anointed the future king of Israel, and Saul turned his heart away from God. After years of trying to hunt down and kill David, Saul's life came to a tragic end when during a battle, he fell on his sword and ended his own life (\"1 Samuel:31\").", "profile life lessons": "Obey God at all times.", "profile key scripture": "But Samuel replied, \"Obedience is far better than sacrifice. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has rejected you from being king.\""
"profile name": "Esau", "profile description": "Esau received his name, which means \"hairy,\" when he was born because he was very red and covered with thick hair like a fur coat. Esau was born first with his twin brother, Jacob, grasping his heel. He grew up loving the outdoors, and he became a skillful hunter. Esau \"sold\" his birthright to Jacob for a bowl of stew. Esau and Jacob were separated for many years, but Esau forgave him, and they were reconciled.", "profile bible infoscan": "Esau received his name, which means \"hairy,\" when he was born because he was very red and covered with thick hair like a fur coat (\"Genesis:25:25\"). I wonder why they didn't just name him \"Harry.\" His other name was Edom, which means \"red\" (\"Genesis:36:1\"). Esau was born first, with his twin brother, Jacob, grasping his heel. He grew up loving the outdoors (\"Genesis:25:27\"), and he became a skillful hunter. His father Isaac loved him in particular because of the wild game he brought home (\"Genesis:25:28\") while Rebekah's favorite son was Jacob. One day, when he came home exhausted and hungry from a hunt, Esau \"sold\" his birthright to Jacob for a bowl of stew (\"Genesis:25:30-34\"). His birthright did not have the meaning to him that it had for Jacob. Esau lived for the moment. He also disregarded the family faith by marrying two Hittite women, which made life miserable for Isaac and Rebekah (\"Genesis:26:34-35\"). After Jacob tricked him out of Isaac's blessing, Esau was so angry that he hated Jacob and threatened to kill him when their father died. After Esau learned that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away so he could find a wife, Esau married Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmael, Isaac's half brother. Esau and Jacob were separated for many years, but when Jacob returned on his quest for forgiveness, Esau forgave him, and they reconciled (\"Genesis:32\") However, they went their separate ways and never saw one another again after they buried their father Isaac.", "profile life lessons": "We are responsible for our actions.", "profile key scripture": "Make sure that no one is immoral or godless like Esau, who traded his birthright as the firstborn son for a single meal."
"profile name": "Jezebel", "profile description": "Jezebel was a Phoenician princess, the daughter of Ethbaal, king of Tyre, which is ancient Phoenicia. Ahab and Jezebel worshiped the false gods Baal and Asherah, erecting shrines to them in Samaria. This was evil in the sight of the Lord.", "profile bible infoscan": "Jezebel was a Phoenician princess. She was the daughter of Ethbaal, king of Tyre, which is ancient Phoenicia. She was the wife of Ahab, the king of Israel. Ahab was evil enough on his own without adding wicked Jezebel to the mix! This is what the Bible says, \"And as though it were not enough to follow the sinful example of Jeroboam, he married Jezebel, the daughter of King Ethbaal of the Sidonians, and he began to bow down in worship of Baal. First Ahab built a temple and an altar for Baal in Samaria. Then he set up an Asherah pole. He did more to provoke the anger of the Lord, the God of Israel, than any of the other kings of Israel before him.\" (1 Kings 16:31-33). We read even more about Jezebel's evil influence in 1 Kings 21:25: \"No one else so completely sold himself to what was evil in the Lord's sight as Ahab did under the influence of his wife Jezebel.\" Yes, Jezebel was a wicked, evil woman who stopped at nothing to get what she desired. She tried to murder all of the prophets of God in Israel. 1 Kings 18:4 says, \"Once when Jezebel had tried to kill all the Lord's prophets, Obadiah had hidden 100 of them in two caves. He put fifty prophets in each cave and supplied them with food and water.)\" Jezebel was so heavily into idolatry that there were 450 prophets of Baal and 400 prophets of Asherah who she supported! (\"1 Kings:18:19\"). These 850 prophets were the ones who Elijah challenged on Mount Carmel. The Baal prophets called upon their god to send fire from early morning until noon with no response. Elijah called upon God and He immediately flashed down fire from heaven which completely consumed the sacrifice and even the altar! The people cried out that the Lord was God! \"Then Elijah commanded, \"Seize all the prophets of Baal. Don't let a single one escape!\" So the people seized them all, and Elijah took them down to the Kishon Valley and killed them there.\" (1 Kings 18:18-40). When Jezebel heard the news, she was enraged. \"So Jezebel sent this message to Elijah: \"May the gods strike me and even kill me if by this time tomorrow I have not killed you just as you killed them.\" (1 Kings 19:1-2). Elijah, who had stood up to wicked King Ahab and 850 false prophets, was afraid of one woman and ran from her! That says a lot about Jezebel's evil reputation! Jezebel could not carry out her threat because God was with Elijah. God's angels fed and ministered to Elijah. (1 Kings 19: 3-18). In 1 Kings 21, there is a story about a man named of Naboth. He owned a vineyard near the royal palace of Ahab in the city of Jezreel. King Ahab desired to have Naboth's vineyard. Ahab tried to buy the vineyard but Naboth refused to give up his family inheritance. Jezebel came to Ahab's rescue and created false evidence against Naboth. The authorities in his town accused him of blasphemy and stoned him to death! Elijah confronted Ahab with their wickedness. He prophesied that Ahab, Jezebel, and their children would die horrible deaths. Elijah's prophecy was soon fulfilled. Jezebel was killed by Jehu when he ordered her to be thrown out of a window. Then, as Elijah predicted, she was eaten by dogs. (1 Kings 21:20-28; 2 Kings 9:7-37). The name Jezebel is mentioned in (\"Revelation:2:20\") as a name for a wicked, false prophet.", "profile life lessons": "As believers we live in this world, but we need to keep ourselves free from the temptations of worldly and ungodly things.", "profile key scripture": "You are to destroy the family of Ahab, your master. In this way, I will avenge the murder of my prophets and all the LORD's servants who were killed by Jezebel."
"profile name": "King Xerxes", "profile description": "Xerxes the Great (519-465 BC) was the fourth king of Persia. He is the king who took Esther as his wife and queen. He accepted her unannounced visit and offered her up to half of the kingdom. When she revealed to him how Haman had tricked him, Xerxes punished Haman and reversed his decree.", "profile bible infoscan": "King Xerxes, (Ahasuerus in Hebrew), was the king of Persia from 486-465 BC. He was the son of Darius the Great and grandson of Cyrus the Great. He is mentioned two other times in the Old Testament. (\"Daniel:9:1\" ; \"Ezra:4:6\"). During the time of Esther, Xerxes ruled his empire from his royal throne in the fortress of Susa, thought to be the king's winter palace. He was king over 127 provinces stretching from India to Ethiopia. In the third year of his reign, Xerxes threw a banquet for all his nobles and officials which lasted for 180 days! This was a tremendous display of his magnificent wealth and power. (\"Esther:1:1-4\"). King Xerxes' queen was named Vashti. She was stripped of her title and banished from his presence when she showed disrespect for the king. Xerxes made this decision based on the advice of his wise men or advisers. He later questioned his decision after his anger left him. (\"Esther:1:10\"). The king was counseled by his advisers to look for another queen to replace Vashti. This is where Esther came into the picture. She was one of many beautiful young women selected by the king's agents to be taken to Xerxes' palace. Esther pleased the king more than all of the other women. \"And the king loved Esther more than any of the other young women. He was so delighted with her that he set the royal crown on her head and declared her queen instead of Vashti.\" (\"Esther:2:17\" ; \"Esther:2:1-18\") Surely God's favor was present with Esther! King Xerxes promoted a man named Haman the Agagite over all the other leaders in his kingdom. Haman did not like Mordecai, who was a Jew and secretly Queen Esther's cousin. Mordecai refused to bow to Haman or show respect. Haman came up with a plan to destroy Mordecai and all the Jews in King Xerxes' empire. The king agreed with Haman's plan and a decree was written and sealed with the king's signet ring. This meant that the decree was irrevocable, or could not be reversed! Neither King Xerxes nor Haman knew that Queen Esther was a Jew; she had kept it a secret! (Esther 3). Mordecai sent word to Queen Esther about the evil plan. He told Esther that she needed to plead with the king to save her people. (Esther 4) Esther came to the king, risking her own life, and asked the king and Haman to attend a banquet she had prepared. At the banquet, Esther invited the king and Haman to a second banquet. She was setting the stage to reveal Haman's evil plan and that she was one of the Jew's he would destroy! That night, Xerxes could not sleep so he began to read a book containing the history of his reign as king. In the book he discovered that Mordecai had saved his life by exposing a plot to assassinate him. The king ordered Haman to honor Mordecai for his act of bravery in front of everyone in the city. This aggravated and humiliated Haman to no end! (Esther 6). The king and Haman attended a second banquet prepared by Queen Esther. This time Esther revealed Haman's evil plot to the king to execute the Jews - including her! The king was furious and ordered Haman to be executed on the very gallows that Haman had just constructed to hang Mordecai! (Esther 7). The same day, King Xerxes gave all of Haman's property to Queen Esther. The queen pleaded with the king to stop the evil plan that was in place to kill the Jews. King Xerxes gave Mordecai his signet ring and told him he could write anything he wanted in the king's name to the Jews; however, according to Persian law, he could not revoke the previous decree. Mordecai wrote to all of the Jews that they could defend themselves against their enemies and sealed it with the king's ring to make it official. The Jews rejoiced everywhere the new decree was read. Many of the people became Jews themselves because they feared what the Jews might do to them! (Esther 8). King Xerxes promoted Mordecai to be prime minister with authority next to King Xerxes himself. (Esther 10).", "profile life lessons": "Recognize that God places leaders into positions of power.", "profile key scripture": "When he saw Queen Esther standing there in the inner court, he welcomed her and held out the gold scepter to her. So Esther approached and touched the end of the scepter."
"profile name": "Armageddon", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The word Armageddon means \"Mountain of Megiddo,\" the site of the final battle of this age. In this battle, God intervenes to destroy the armies of Satan and cast Satan into a bottomless pit (\"Revelation:20:1-3\"). Scholars of the Bible disagree about the exact location of the battlefield, but a possibility is the valley between Mount Carmel and the city of Jezreel. This is where the Valley of Jezreel and the Plain of Esdraelon were at the foot of Mount Megiddo. This valley was a strategic military site because it was the crossroads of two ancient trade routes. Because of its history of battles, Megiddo became a symbol of the final battle between God and the forces of evil. In the Book of Revelation, we read that the demonic spirits gathered all the rulers and their armies to a place with the Hebrew name Armageddon (\"Revelation:16:16\"). Here, the seventh angel poured out his bowl in the air. God made Babylon (which represents the world that is in rebellion against God) drink the cup that was filled with the wine of His fierce wrath (\"Revelation:16:17-19\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"And the demonic spirits gathered all the rulers and their armies to a place with the Hebrew name Armageddon.\""
"profile name": "Mount Sinai", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "In the middle of the rocky Sinai desert, there is a range of mountains. These mountains are made of granite, so nothing grows on them. One of these mountains is Mount Sinai, where God met Moses and gave him the Law (\"Exodus:19-20\"). Mount Sinai is also called Mount Horeb (\"Exodus:3:1\"). Perhaps Horeb refers to the mountain range or ridge and Sinai refers to one of the summits on that ridge. The name Sinai is used when the Israelites were camped at the foot of the mountain (\"Exodus:19:11\") whereas Horeb is used upon reflection about the events that took place there. The events that took place at Mount Sinai turned the Israelites into God's people. The Israelites made a covenant or agreement with God. God promised to care for them and they promised to keep His laws. On Mount Sinai, God came down in a cloud and stood there with Moses and spoke with him (\"Exodus:34:5\"). A cloud also symbolized God's presence when Jesus ascended into heaven as \"He was taken up into a cloud while they were still watching Him\" (\"Acts:1:9\"). We can trust in the promise of the two white-robed men who told the disciples that one day Jesus \"will return from heaven in the same way you saw Him go\" (\"Acts:1:11\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "All of Mount Sinai was covered with smoke because the Lord had descended on it in the form of fire. The smoke billowed into the sky like smoke from a brick kiln, and the whole mountain shook violently. As the blast of the ram's horn grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God thundered his reply. The Lord came down on the top of Mount Sinai and called Moses to the top of the mountain. So Moses climbed the mountain."
"profile name": "The Sacrifice", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "A sacrifice is an act of killing an animal or surrendering a possession as an offering to a god. Although the main purpose of the sacrifice is to please the deity (god) and gain his or her favor, it can often express faith, repentance, and worship. The pagans in ancient times offered their sacrifices to gods and idols -- but the Israelites made offerings to the Living God. The heads of the families and the priests brought the sacrifices into the Temple in Jerusalem where the sacrifices were offered. However, sacrifices have not been offered by the Jews since the destruction of the Temple by Romans in A.D. 70. Usually, the burnt offering was a lamb -- but sometimes a ewe or ram was sacrificed. The animal could not be sick or dying. It had to be perfect. These Old Testament sacrifices (including the intended sacrifice of Isaac) all point to the sacrifice of Jesus Christ (\"Hebrews:9\" is the perfect sacrifice, the perfect gift. We can be living sacrifices to God by giving our lives to Him and by changing the way we think and live (\"Romans:12:1-2\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"And so, dear brothers and sisters, I plead with you to give your bodies to God because of all he has done for you. Let them be a living and holy sacrifice - the kind he will find acceptable. This is truly the way to worship him. Don't copy the behavior and customs of this world, but let God transform you into a new person by changing the way you think. Then you will learn to know God's will for you, which is good and pleasing and perfect.\""
"profile name": "Astrologers", "profile description": "The astrologers served as some of the king's wise men. Their advice came from stars. Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego received their advice from God. The astrologers were jealous of the three men because of the positions the king promoted them to - even though they were prisoners! As soon as they saw the three men refuse to bow to the gold statue, they jumped on the opportunity to inform the king.", "profile bible infoscan": "The astrologers in King Nebuchadnezzar's court were part of the advisers present at the dedication of the gold statue. They could not wait to inform the king that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refused to bow down and worship his prized gold statue. This was the opportunity they had been waiting for! (\"Daniel:3:1-2\"). The king's astrologers and wise men were jealous of Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, and Daniel's wisdom. (\"Daniel:1:20\"). When the king had a dream, he asked his wise men to not only tell him the meaning of the dream, but also to reveal the dream itself. The king's astrologers and advisers cried foul; this was an impossible request; no one could do that but the gods! Daniel and his three Hebrew friends prayed and God revealed the secret to Daniel. The king's wise men were no match for the true wisdom of God! Daniel and his three friends were then promoted by King Nebuchadnezzar. (Daniel 2). \"Then the king appointed Daniel to a high position and gave him many valuable gifts. He made Daniel ruler over the whole province of Babylon, as well as chief over all his wise men. At Daniel's request, the king appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to be in charge of all the affairs of the province of Babylon, while Daniel remained in the king's court.\" (\"Daniel:2:48-49\"). The astrologers and wise men's plan backfired when Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego came out of the blazing furnace unharmed and not even smelling of smoke! As a result the king promoted them to even higher positions! (\"Daniel:3:26-30\"). The practice of astrology is an attempt to find supernatural guidance by interpreting the movements of the stars and planets. It is a form of divination or fortune telling that is expressly forbidden by God in Scripture. God declares that anyone who practices astrology, fortune telling, or other forms of witchcraft is detestable to Him. (\"Deuteronomy:18:10-14\"). \"Deuteronomy:4:19\" warns that God put the stars in the sky to bless and help His people; they are part of His creation and not to be worshiped. The stars also served as a visual representation and reminder to Abraham of God's covenant. When Abraham observed the stars at night, he was reminded of God's faithfulness and promise to bless him and his descendants. The proper response to God's heavenly creation can be found in (\"Psalms:8:3-4\"). \"When I look at the night sky and see the work of your fingers - the moon and the stars you set in place - what are mere mortals that you should think about them, human beings that you should care for them?\" Jeremiah 10:2 warns God's people about astrology. \"This is what the Lord says: 'Do not act like the other nations, who try to read their future in the stars. Do not be afraid of their predictions, even though other nations are terrified by them.'\" God specifically identifies astrologers as those who will face God's judgment and punishment. (\"Isaiah:47:13-14\"). Sadly, several times in the Old Testament the people of Israel looked to the stars or to soothsayers for guidance rather than to Almighty God (\"2 Kings:17:16-14\" ;\"2 Kings:17:16\"). Those who worshiped the stars brought God's judgment upon themselves and the nation of Israel. The Apostle Paul told the Roman church that we see God through creation. Romans 1:20 says' \"For ever since the world was created, people have seen the earth and sky. Through everything God made, they can clearly see his invisible qualities - his eternal power and divine nature. So they have no excuse for not knowing God.\" James 1:5 tells us that real and true wisdom comes from God, not the stars. \"If you need wisdom, ask our generous God, and he will give it to you. He will not rebuke you for asking.\" Why would we seek answers from God's creation when we can go directly to the Creator; the source of all wisdom? (\"Daniel:3:17\").", "profile life lessons": "Our wisdom comes from God.", "profile key scripture": "But some of the astrologers went to the king and informed on the Jews."
"profile name": "Roman Centurion", "profile description": "This Roman Centurion represented the civil authority that Rome had over Jerusalem. They were veteran soldiers who commanded 100 men. In Matthew 27:50-54, we see that a centurion was present at the crucifixion of Jesus and exclaimed that Jesus was the Son of God!", "profile bible infoscan": "This Roman Centurion represented the civil authority that Rome had over Jerusalem. They were noticeable in the army because they wore a special ornate helmet. They would typically work their way up the ranks as soldiers and were promoted for their dedication and courage. They were veteran soldiers who commanded 100 men. Their group of 100 men would be a part of a larger group called a legion, which consisted of 6,000 soldiers. In \"Matthew:27:50-54\" , we see that a centurion was present at the crucifixion of Jesus and exclaimed that Jesus was the Son of God!", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "The Roman officer and the other soldiers at the crucifixion were terrified by the earthquake and all that had happened. They said, \"This man truly was the Son of God!\""
"profile name": "The Tree of Life", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "This tree is described as being in the middle of the Garden of Eden, and it is significant because it gave life--without death--to those who ate of its fruit. God sent Adam and Eve out of Eden so that they would not eat of its fruit, and He stationed a cherubim with a flaming sword to guard it (\"Genesis:3:22-23\"). The tree is also mentioned in \"Revelation:2:7\" and \"Revelation:22:2-14\" . So we will see the Tree of Life again when Jesus returns to make all things right again in the world. Jesus gives this promise to us for when He returns: \"Blessed are those who wash their robes. They will be permitted to enter through the gates of the city and eat the fruit from the tree of life\" (Revelation 22:14, NASB).", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "Then the Lord God said, \"Look, the human beings have become like us, knowing both good and evil. What if they reach out, take fruit from the tree of life, and eat it? Then they will live forever!\""
"profile name": "Shem, Ham, Japheth", "profile description": "The sons of Noah who came out of the boat with their father were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. From these three sons of Noah came all the people who now populate the Earth.", "profile bible infoscan": "Noah had three sons named Shem, Ham, and Japheth. \"Genesis:9:18-19\" says, \"The sons of Noah who came out of the boat with their father were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. (Ham is the father of Canaan.) From these three sons of Noah came all the people who now populate the earth.\" This was a direct commandment from God. \"Then God blessed Noah and his sons and told them, \"Be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth. (\"Genesis:9:1\"). All of the sons of Noah had been born after Noah's 500th birthday (\"Genesis:9:32\"). Ham Ham was Noah's youngest son. (\"Genesis:9:24\"). Sometime after Noah and his family left the ark, Noah planted a vineyard. He made some wine from his vineyard, got drunk, and then passed out. As Noah lay naked, drunk, and asleep, Ham, saw his father and went outside and told his brothers. Shem and Japheth respectfully took a robe, backed into the tent so they didn't see their father, and then covered him up. Noah later found out what Ham did and pronounced a curse upon Canaan, Ham's youngest son - while at the same time pronouncing a blessing upon Shem and Japheth. (\"Genesis:9:20-27\"). Why Ham reacted as he did, we don't know. Whatever the reason or cause, apparently Ham reacted inappropriately. His behavior was disrespectful enough to cause Noah to issue a curse on Canaan, Ham's son. As a result of this disrespectful action, Canaan would become a servant of Noah's other sons. Japheth Japheth was the middle son (\"Genesis:9:24\" ; \"Genesis:10:21\") Of the sons of Noah, we know the least about Japheth. Genesis 10:2-4 gives us some information about his family. The descendants of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. Japheth, along with his with his brother Shem, did the right thing to cover up Noah's indecency in his tent in a respectful and quiet way. Noah pronounced a blessing on Japheth and Shem for this while also pronouncing a curse against Ham and his son, Canaan. \"May God expand the territory of Japheth! May Japheth share the prosperity of Shem, and may Canaan be his servant.\" (\"Genesis:9:27\"). Shem Shem was Noah's oldest son. (\"Genesis:10:21\") The Bible tells us about Shem's family in Genesis 11:10-11: \"This is the account of Shem's family. Two years after the great flood, when Shem was 100 years old, he became the father of Arphaxad. After the birth of Arphaxad, Shem lived another 500 years and had other sons and daughters. Shem's complete family history is listed in Genesis 10: 21-31 and 11: 10-32. It is important to note that Abraham is a descendant of Shem. Abraham was the first person to be referred to as a Hebrew. (\"Genesis:14:13\"). Shem, along with Japheth, did the right thing to cover up Noah's indecency in his tent in a respectful and quiet way. As with Japheth, Shem received a greatest blessing from Noah in \"Genesis:9:26-27\" : \"Then Noah said, \"May the LORD, the God of Shem, be blessed, and may Canaan be his servant! May God expand the territory of Japheth! May Japheth share the prosperity of Shem, and may Canaan be his servant.\"", "profile life lessons": "Like Shem, Ham, and Japheth we have to trust that God is speaking through our parents.", "profile key scripture": "Then God blessed Noah and his sons and told them, \"Be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth."
"profile name": "The Flood", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "God was about to punish the wickedness of the world by a flood that would cover the earth! (Genesis 6:5-8). God told Noah, the only righteous person on earth, to build an ark to hold his family and all types of animals. When the boat was finished, Noah, his family, and the animals went inside. The rain started 7 days later. (\"Genesis:7:1-4\"). Noah's flood was much more than any 40-day rainstorm could ever be. \"When Noah was 600 years old, on the seventeenth day of the second month, all the underground waters erupted from the earth, and the rain fell in mighty torrents from the sky. The rain continued to fall for forty days and forty nights and the floodwaters covered the earth for 150 days. (\"Genesis:7:11-12\"). \"As the waters rose higher and higher above the ground, the boat floated safely on the surface. Finally, the water covered even the highest mountains on the earth, rising more than twenty-two feet above the highest peaks. All the living things on earth died - birds, domestic animals, wild animals, small animals that scurry along the ground, and all the people.\" (\"Genesis:7:18-21\"). Many people say that the flood in Noah's time was a local flood, not a global or worldwide flood. This is not what the Bible says. In the same way the entire earth will be destroyed by fire in the end times, the world was destroyed by water in Noah's time. (2 Peter 3:6-7). \"Genesis:6:13\" says, \"So God said to Noah, \"I have decided to destroy all living creatures, for they have filled the earth with violence. Yes, I will wipe them all out along with the earth!\" God says ALL living creatures and the earth not a part of the earth. The description of the flood in Genesis 7 says the entire earth, not part of it. This was a worldwide flood. God's covenant with Noah stated He would never again destroy the earth with a flood. Notice that He said, AGAIN. (\"Genesis:9:11\"). How clear can this be? It was a flood like no other will ever be! There have been countless \"local\" floods all over the earth since Noah's time. If God's covenant is referring to a local flood - God has broken His covenant over and over again! \"Genesis:8:1-5\" says, \"But God remembered Noah and all the wild animals and livestock with him in the boat. He sent a wind to blow across the earth, and the floodwaters began to recede. The underground waters stopped flowing, and the torrential rains from the sky were stopped. So the floodwaters gradually receded from the earth. After 150 days, exactly five months from the time the flood began, the boat came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. Two and a half months later, as the waters continued to go down, other mountain peaks became visible.\" \"Genesis:8:13-15\" says, \"Noah was now 601 years old. On the first day of the new year, ten and a half months after the flood began, the floodwaters had almost dried up from the earth. Noah lifted back the covering of the boat and saw that the surface of the ground was drying. Two more months went by, and at last the earth was dry!\" In \"Matthew:24:37-39\" , Jesus compares the time of the flood with when He returns to earth. \"When the Son of Man returns, it will be like it was in Noah's day. In those days before the flood, the people were enjoying banquets and parties and weddings right up to the time Noah entered his boat. People didn't realize what was going to happen until the flood came and swept them all away. That is the way it will be when the Son of Man comes.\" Jesus referred to the flood as a real event. The flood really happened; it wasn't a parable or made up children's story. Jesus will return to earth one day - are you ready?", "profile life lessons": "Realize that God controls the powerful forces of nature and protects us.", "profile key scripture": "God wiped out every living thing on the earth - people, livestock, small animals that scurry along the ground, and the birds of the sky. All were destroyed. The only people who survived were Noah and those with him in the boat."
"profile name": "Isaac (Young)", "profile description": "Isaac was the promised son to Abraham and Sarah. He was born when Abraham was 100 years old and Sarah was 90 years old (and you thought YOUR parents were old). Isaac was known as the child of promise, but that promise seemed in doubt after God commanded Abraham to offer Isaac as a sacrifice on a mountain in the land of Moriah.", "profile bible infoscan": "Isaac was the promised son to Abraham and Sarah. He was most likely born at Beersheba (\"Genesis:21:14,31\") when Abraham was 100 years old and Sarah was 90 years old. Before he was born, God gave him the name Isaac, which means \"he laughs\" (\"Genesis:17:19\"). Both Abraham and Sarah had laughed at the thought of having a baby in their old age (\"Genesis:17:17-19\" , \"Genesis:18:9-15\" , \"Genesis:21:6\"). Isaac was known as the \"child of promise.\" God commanded Abraham to offer Isaac as a sacrifice on a mountain in the land of Moriah (\"Genesis:22\" s exact age is not known, but he was old and strong enough to be able to carry the wood up the mountain for the burnt offering. He trusted in the love and faith of his father. He had witnessed Abraham making burnt offerings before. He knew the meaning and the significance of a burnt offering to God, and he submitted to Abraham when he was tied up and laid on the altar over the wood that he himself had carried (\"Genesis:22:9\"). God sent an angel to stop Abraham from killing Isaac, so in a sense, he came back from the dead (\"Hebrews:11:19\") and continued to be part of God's plan for His people. Isaac's mother died when he was 36 years old (\"Genesis:23:1\"). Abraham died at the age of 175 years, and Isaac and his half brother Ishmael buried him beside Sarah (\"Genesis:25:7-10\"). \"After Abraham's death, God blessed his son Isaac, who settled near Beer-lahai-roi in the Negev\" (\"Genesis:25:11\").", "profile life lessons": "Have role models who will encourage your faith.", "profile key scripture": "But God replied, 'No - Sarah, your wife, will give birth to a son for you. You will name him Isaac, and I will confirm my covenant with him and his descendants as an everlasting covenant'."
"profile name": "The Fiery Furnace", "profile description": "The penalty was clear - bow down and worship the gold statue or into the furnace you go! Surely no one would disobey this command... except Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They trusted God and boldly stood up up to the king. They would only worship the one true God! The king was furious. He ordered the furnace to be heated up seven times hotter than usual. It was so hot that the soldiers who threw the men in died as they did it! God miraculously rescued the three Hebrew men. They walked out unharmed from the furnace- not even smelling of smoke!", "profile bible infoscan": "The king was proud of his gold statue. He invited all of his leaders to the dedication. King Nebuchadnezzar's command was clear in \"Daniel:3:5-6\" : \"When you hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipes, and other musical instruments, bow to the ground to worship King Nebuchadnezzar's gold statue. Anyone who refuses to obey will immediately be thrown into a blazing furnace.\" Simply put - bow or burn! The purpose of the furnace was not only for punishment; however, burning was a typical form of execution practiced by Babylonian rulers. King Nebuchadnezzar burned to death two men named Zedekiah and Ahab. (\"Jeremiah:29:22\"). A detailed description of the furnace is not found in the Bible. It was likely a huge chamber used to melt minerals or bake bricks for construction. It may have been used most recently in the building of the gold statue - how ironic would that be? Nebuchadnezzar was so enraged by the disobedience of the three Hebrew men, that he ordered the furnace to be made seven times hotter than usual. How hot was that? The soldiers who tied up and threw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into the furnace were killed just by being near it! The three Hebrew men were bold and would not back down from remained true to God. Even when faced with certain death by the furnace, they trusted God and submitted to His will for their lives. \"Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego replied, \"O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you. If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God whom we serve is able to save us. He will rescue us from your power, Your Majesty. But even if he doesn't, we want to make it clear to you, Your Majesty, that we will never serve your gods or worship the gold statue you have set up.\" (Daniel 3:16-18) (\"Daniel:3:16-18\"). We do know from \"Daniel:3:25-26\" , that the furnace was large enough that four men could walk around in it. We also know that there was a door low enough to the ground for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to step out of the furnace - unharmed! (\"Daniel:3:26\"). The furnace can serve as a reminder of God's faithful and constant presence and protection as we go through fiery trials, persecution, and suffering on this earth. (\"1 Peter:4:12\"). \"Isaiah:48:10\" says, \"I have refined you, but not as silver is refined. Rather, I have refined you in the furnace of suffering.\"", "profile life lessons": "We all will face fiery trials.", "profile key scripture": "Then Nebuchadnezzar came as close as he could to the door of the flaming furnace and shouted: \"Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out! Come here!\""
"profile name": "Veil/Curtain", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "This was the curtain in the Jewish Temple that separated the Holy Place from the Holy of Holies (the Most Holy Place). Only the high priest could go behind the veil, and this happened only one day each year, on the Day of Atonement (\"Leviticus:16:2\"). However, when Jesus died on the cross, the veil of the Temple was torn in two--not from the bottom as if a person had torn it but from top to bottom to prove it was the work of God (\"Matthew:27:51\"). Through His death, Jesus showed us the way for every believer to enter the presence of God (\"Hebrews:6:19\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "The light from the sun was gone. And suddenly, the curtain in the sanctuary of the Temple was torn down the middle."
"profile name": "Parables", "profile description": "Jesus often taught using parables while He was on the earth. The parable of the Prodigal Son illustrates God's love, mercy, and forgiveness to all who have sinned and are lost.", "profile bible infoscan": "A parable is a short story which uses familiar events to illustrate a religious or ethical point. Parable comes from a Greek word that means to place one thing beside the other to compare them. Parables can be found throughout the Bible. In the Old Testament, one well known example is when God sent Nathan the prophet to King David. Nathan told a story about a rich man and a poor man and compared it to the sin of David with Bathsheba. David's eyes were opened causing him to repent before God. (\"2 Samuel:12:1-4\"). In the New Testament, Jesus commonly taught in parables. His story about the Prodigal Son is one parable. The Prodigal or Lost Son is one of three stories Jesus told about being lost and found. The other parables were the Lost Sheep and the Lost Coin. Jesus told these stories to the religious leaders when they complained about Him hanging out with sinful people - and even eating with them! In the Prodigal Son parable, the younger son represents sinners who turn away from God and make unwise choices. The father represents God, our heavenly Father. Parables were Jesus' main method of teaching while on the earth. (\"John:15:1-32\"). \"Mark:4:34\" says, \"Jesus used many similar stories and illustrations to teach the people as much as they could understand. In fact, in His public ministry He never taught without using parables; but afterward, when He was alone with His disciples, He explained everything to them.\" Jesus' parables refer to simple things, yet they deal with major religious themes, such as the growth of the Kingdom of God, the importance of prayer, and the meaning of love. Jesus' disciples asked Him about the parables He taught. \"He replied, \"You are permitted to understand the secret of the Kingdom of God. But I use parables for everything I say to outsiders, so that the Scriptures might be fulfilled: 'When they see what I do, they will learn nothing. When they hear what I say, they will not understand. Otherwise, they will turn to Me and be forgiven.\" (\"Mark:4:11-12\"). Parables cause us to dig deeper to understand and apply what is being taught to our own lives.", "profile life lessons": "We need to pay attention to the truth that God will show us through the common things in our lives.", "profile key scripture": "In fact, in his public ministry he never taught without using parables."
"profile name": "Ezra", "profile description": "Ezra was a scribe and priest and a descendant of the high priest, Aaron. He was sent to Jerusalem by the king of Persia to teach God's Law to the people in Jerusalem. Ezra had the favor of God on His life and God's hand was upon him. Ezra worked with Nehemiah to re-establish the Temple and to restore the proper worship of the Lord. ", "profile bible infoscan": "Ezra was a scribe and priest. He was a descendant of the high priest, Aaron. He lived during the reign of King Artaxerxes of Persia. Ezra had the favor of God on his life. His passion was to study God's Law, and to teach it to the people of Israel. He came to Jerusalem from Babylon. King Artaxerxes gave him everything he asked for, because God's hand was on him. Ezra traveled to Jerusalem with some other Israelites. This included priests, Levites, singers, gatekeepers, and Temple servants (\"Ezra:7:10\"). The king told Ezra to use God's wisdom to appoint leaders and judges to govern the people. The king declared that Ezra was to teach the law to anyone who did not know it. King Artaxerxes told Ezra that he would punish anyone who refused to obey God's law. Ezra praised God that the king sent him to Jerusalem. The king also sent a letter with Ezra. It gave him power, authority, and resources to complete his mission (\"Ezra:7:25\"). Ezra was a man of prayer. When he heard about some of the evil practices of the priests, Levites, and other people in Jerusalem, he wept, mourned, and tore his clothes in disgust and sorrow (\"Ezra:9:5\"). When the walls were finished; Ezra stood on a platform and read the Book of the Law of Moses to the people of Israel. Men, women and children who were old enough to understand stood to hear God's Word read. Then Ezra and the other priests explained the law to everyone. Ezra and the people lifted their hands and praised God. Then they bowed down to worship Him (\"Nehemiah:8:9\"). Ezra read from the Book of the Law each day, during the seven days of the Festival of Booths, also called Shelters, or Tabernacles (\"Ezra:8:18\"). Ezra and Nehemiah walked around the top of the city walls with the people at the dedication ceremony. This was a time to give joyous thanks and praise to God (\"Nehemiah:12:31\"). Some scholars credit Ezra to be the author of the books of Ezra and Chronicles.", "profile life lessons": "Place importance on God's Word.", "profile key scripture": "And praise him for demonstrating such unfailing love to me by honoring me before the king, his council, and all his mighty nobles! I felt encouraged because the gracious hand of the LORD my God was on me. And I gathered some of the leaders of Israel to return with me to Jerusalem."
"profile name": "Hebrew Spies", "profile description": "The spies are sent across the Jordan River to find a way to defeat Jericho. What they find is an unlikely ally -- Rahab. When these spies were trapped in Jericho, she protects them. In return, they protect her entire household during the fall of Jericho. ", "profile bible infoscan": "Joshua secretly sent out two spies to gather information about Jericho. The key word is \"secretly\". Joshua would not repeat what happened years before when Moses sent out twelve spies. Only he and Caleb brought back a good report. The other spies brought back a bad report that spread fear and panic to the people with the news that giants were in the land and the towns were heavily fortified. (Numbers 13). This is the last thing Joshua needed as Israel's new leader; he had learned a valuable lesson! Once inside the walls of Jericho, the spies headed to Rahab's house to hide for the night. The king heard that some Israelites had come to spy on them and were at Rahab's house. Rahab bravely hid the spies on her roof beneath bundles of flax and lied to the king's men saying the men had left town. The king's men searched for the spies by the Jordan River. While talking to the spies that night, Rahab makes a confession of faith in the one true God. She told the spies that the people of Jericho are living in fear and do not have the courage to fight because of the stories they have heard about God. She also asked for protection. (\"Joshua:2:8-13\"). The spies agree to protect her and offered their own lives as a guarantee for her safety. The spies told Rahab to hang the scarlet cord outside her window and all who are in her house would be spared. The men escaped Jericho by a rope hanging from Rahab's window. (\"Joshua:2:14-15\"). They then stayed in the hill country for three days before crossing the Jordan River again. The spies gave a good report to Joshua telling him that the Lord had given the land to them because the people of Jericho were terrified! When the walls of Jericho collapsed, Joshua ordered the two spies to keep their promise and bring Rahab and her family to safety. (\"Joshua:6:22-23\").", "profile life lessons": "Speak faith to encourage others.", "profile key scripture": "Then Joshua secretly sent out two spies from the Israelite camp at Acacia Grove. He instructed them, \"Scout out the land on the other side of the Jordan River, especially around Jericho.\" So the two men set out and came to the house of a prostitute named Rahab and stayed there that night."
"profile name": "The Red Sea", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "After escaping from Egypt, the Israelites were trapped by the Red Sea. Pharaoh's army was chasing them, and the Red Sea was blocking their path. Moses called on God and raised his staff. The Red Sea was divided into two walls of water. This allowed for the Israelites to walk through the sea on dry land (\"Exodus:14:21-22\"). You've got to admit: that's pretty exciting. The Red Sea is a 1350-mile long body of water from the Indian Ocean to the Gulf of Suez. The name \"Red Sea\" is a translation of the Hebrew \"yam suph,\" which occurs about 23 times in the Old Testament. Some of the mentions were during God's further instruction to Moses, after the Ten Commandments (\"Exodus:23:31\"), and in the wilderness before the conquest of Canaan (\"Numbers:14:25\"). It was also mentioned during Joshua's speech to the troops, shortly before the conquest of Jericho. It has been suggested that the area where the Israelites crossed was directly opposite of the Wilderness of Shur, which was the first place the Israelites camped after crossing the \"yam suph\" (\"Exodus:15:22\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "Then Moses raised his hand over the sea, and the Lord opened up a path through the water with a strong east wind. The wind blew all that night, turning the seabed into dry land."
"profile name": "Burlap and Ashes", "profile description": "The king of Nineveh heard Jonah's message of doom. He took off his royal robes and put on sackcloth (burlap) to humble himself. He declared a fast and all of the people, including the animals, wore sackcloth and mourned. God saw what they did and changed His mind and spared the city from judgment!", "profile bible infoscan": "Burlap was most often made of coarse camel or goat hair. The material was used to make grain bags known as sackcloth. It also was customarily worn to mourn a death, or as a sign of deep repentance, anguish, and humility. Since burlap is a coarse material, it would be very uncomfortable to wear. Wearing sackcloth was often preceded by tearing one's clothes. It was also frequently worn together with ashes which were sat in, smeared, or sprinkled on the body or head. (\"2 Samuel:3:31\"). The Bible has many examples of people who wore sackcloth (burlap) along with ashes for a number of different circumstances. In the story of Jonah, the Ninevites, including the king, wore sackcloth and ashes as a sign of repentance for sin. (\"Jonah:3:5-6\"). In the Ninevites case, even the animals wore sackcloth. (\"Jonah:3:8\"). Examples of sackcloth and ashes being worn in the Bible: - To signify repentance of sin: \"1 Kings:21:27\" ; \"1 Chronicles:21:16\" ; \"Jeremiah:6:26\" ; \"Lamentations:2:10\" . - As a sign of mourning for the dead: \"Genesis:37:34\" ; \"2 Samuel:3:31\" . - At times of prayer for deliverance: \"2 Kings:19:1-2\" , \"Daniel:9:3\" . - As a sign of mourning for personal or national disaster, or devastating news: \"Job:16:15\" ; \"Esther:4:1\" ; \"Isaiah:37:1\" ; \"1 Kings:21:27\" . John, in \"Revelation:11:3\" , tells us that the two witnesses will be clothed in burlap as they prophesy in the end times. Sackcloth and ashes were an indication of a person's emotions and an outward sign of a person's inward condition. They represented a change of heart as they humbled themselves before God. David spoke of how God honored his time in of true mourning and repentance in Psalm 30:11. \"You have turned my mourning into joyful dancing. You have taken away my clothes of mourning and clothed me with joy.\"", "profile life lessons": "God will turn our mourning and sorrow into joy.", "profile key scripture": "When the king of Nineveh heard what Jonah was saying, he stepped down from his throne and took off his royal robes. He dressed himself in burlap and sat on a heap of ashes."
"profile name": "Nehemiah", "profile description": "Nehemiah was the cupbearer to the king of Persia. Nehemiah asked the king for permission to go to Jerusalem and rebuild the city walls. Nehemiah led and organized the people to complete the job in only fifty-two days with God's help! Nehemiah was a fearless and caring leader who trusted God and always gave Him credit for his success.", "profile bible infoscan": "Nehemiah was the cupbearer to King Artaxerxes in Persia. This meant that he had the responsibility of tasting the king's food and drink. This was a position of high trust because the king's life depended on him. Nehemiah's brother, Hanani, traveled from Judah. He brought Nehemiah the bad news about the people in Jerusalem. The wall of Jerusalem had been torn down, and the gates destroyed by fire. Nehemiah sat down and wept because of the news. Then he mourned, fasted, and prayed to God for days! He confessed the people's sins, and his family's sin. He asked God to rescue His people. Nehemiah asked God to show Him favor with the king (\"Nehemiah:1:11\"). Nehemiah always came to God in prayer and asked for wisdom, direction, and help. (\"Nehemiah:1:4\"). In fact, Nehemiah prayed four months before he asked the king to send him to Jerusalem! The king granted Nehemiah's request to return to Jerusalem (\"Nehemiah:2:9\"). When he arrived in Jerusalem, he secretly inspected the walls at night. Nehemiah then convinced the people of Israel to rebuild the city and walls. He believed God would give them success to complete the huge project! Sanballat and Tobiah immediately opposed Nehemiah. They did not want the wall and city to be rebuilt (\"Nehemiah:2:10\"). Nehemiah displayed excellent leadership skills to organize the rebuilding project. He divided the work among the people - including the leaders and nobleman (Nehemiah 3). Sanballat, Tobiah, and a man named Greshem, mocked and tried to intimidate Nehemiah and the Israelites to stop their work. They came up with many different evil plots to do this. Yet, Nehemiah always prayed to God and received His discernment and wisdom. He did not back down from their threats or fall for their traps. He also placed guards around the wall and prepared the people with weapons for an attack. All the while, Nehemiah reminded the people to not be afraid and trust God to protect them! Nehemiah refused to be distracted or discouraged by his enemies. Nothing could stop him because he kept his focus on the task God sent him to do! God rewarded Nehemiah's diligence. The people completed the wall in only fifty-two days! (\"Nehemiah:4:1\"). Nehemiah was a bold man of action. He was also an excellent people person who listened to and encouraged those he governed. He addressed many cruel and unfair practices among the leaders in Jerusalem. These practices put a burden on the people. Nehemiah was the governor of Judah for twelve years. During this time, He, and his officials refused to take the portion of food and other benefits that given by the king to a leader in his position. (\"Nehemiah:5:18\"). After the wall was finished, Nehemiah and Ezra gathered the people to together to read God's Law. Men, women, and children old enough to understand, were taught God's Law. The people gave praise and worship to the Lord. They later confessed their sin and made an oath to God to obey His Laws and serve Him. They also promised not to neglect the Temple of the Lord. These promises were actually written on a document and signed by the people and the leaders! Nehemiah and Ezra led the people in praise and worship to God. It was a joyous celebration to dedicate the new wall (\"Nehemiah:12:27\"). Nehemiah also brought much needed changes and reform to God's people. He restored honor to the Sabbath day. He stopped the buying and selling of produce and other goods on that day. He opposed mixed marriages with non-Jews who did not serve God - especially for priests! He gave the Levites their responsibilities and duties back in the Temple. He also re-established their portion of the tithes and offerings given them by God's Law.", "profile life lessons": "God positions us in specific places for His purpose.", "profile key scripture": "The king asked, \"Well, how can I help you?\" With a prayer to the God of heaven, 5I replied, \"If it please the king, and if you are pleased with me, your servant, send me to Judah to rebuild the city where my ancestors are buried."
"profile name": "Wife of Naaman", "profile description": "Naaman's wife was married to a mighty warrior that suffered from leprosy.", "profile bible infoscan": "This Syrian woman was not named in the Bible. She was married to Naaman, a mighty warrior that suffered from leprosy. She was given a young Israelite girl to serve as her maid. One day the servant girl shared how she believed Elisha could heal Naaman's leprosy. Naaman's wife trusted the young girl and shared the information with her husband. Because of this, Naaman went to the king of Syria and was given permission to visit Elisha. God used Naaman's wife to help bring healing and salvation to Naaman. (\"2 Kings:5:1-4\").", "profile life lessons": "Like Naaman's wife, we should show kindness and trust with those we work with.", "profile key scripture": "At this time Aramean raiders had invaded the land of Israel, and among their captives was a young girl who had been given to Naaman's wife as a maid."
"profile name": "Captain Julius", "profile description": "Julius, a Roman officer and a captain of the Imperial Regiment, showed great kindness to Paul. Then the ship broke apart. The soldiers wanted to kill Paul, but Julius wanted to spare him. Julius let Paul carry out his plan. Everyone was saved.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Bible tells us about Captain Julius in \"Acts:27:1\" : \"When the time came, we set sail for Italy. Paul and several other prisoners were placed in the custody of a Roman officer named Julius, a captain of the Imperial Regiment.\" Paul was his prisoner, yet he treated Paul with kindness. Captain Julius allowed Paul to go ashore when the ship docked at Sidon to visit with friends so they could provide for his needs. (\"Acts:27:3\"). When Paul saw that the weather had become dangerous to travel, he tried to get the ship's officers to not travel any further. Captain Julius listened more to the ship's captain and the owner than to Paul and they continued on their journey. (\"Acts:27:9-11\"). As things got worse, Captain Julius listened when Paul warned that if the sailors abandoned ship on lifeboats, they would all die. The Roman soldiers cut the ropes to the lifeboats and the boats drifted away. (\"Acts:27:29-32\"). Captain Julius returned the favor by saving Paul's life when they were shipwrecked. \"The soldiers wanted to kill the prisoners to make sure they didn't swim ashore and escape. But the commanding officer wanted to spare Paul, so he didn't let them carry out their plan. Then he ordered all who could swim to jump overboard first and make for land. The others held on to planks or debris from the broken ship. So everyone escaped safely to shore.\" (\"Acts:27:42-44\"). \"Acts:23:6\" ", "profile life lessons": "If you have faith, like Paul did, God will do great things through you -- even miracles, if you will believe.", "profile key scripture": "But Captain Julius wanted to save Paul's life, and he did not let the soldiers do what they had planned. Instead, he ordered everyone who could swim to dive into the water and head for shore."
"profile name": "Purah", "profile description": "The name Purah (pu'-ra) means \"branch\" or \"coverage.\" This name is fitting for Gideon's servant Purah. Purah was Gideon's armor-bearer. ", "profile bible infoscan": "The name Purah (pu'-ra) means \"branch, foliage, or coverage.\" He was Gideon's Purah was the servant of Gideon. After God reduced Gideon's army to only 300 men, He told Gideon to get up and go to the Midian Camp because He would provide the victory for him. (\"Judges:7:9\") Then in Judges 7:10, God said: \"But if you are afraid to attack, go down to the camp with your servant Purah. Listen to what the Midianites are saying, and you will be greatly encouraged. Then you will be eager to attack.\" So Gideon took Purah and went down to the edge of the enemy camp. (\"Judges:7:10-11\"). This is the only time Purah is mentioned in the Bible. Purah was a loyal and trusted servant. He also must have been a man who would encourage Gideon to obey God rather than cause fear and doubt for his mission. Otherwise, God would certainly not have told Gideon to take him to the camp.", "profile life lessons": "It is best to do God's work with at least one other helper.", "profile key scripture": "God said: \"But if you are afraid to attack, go down to the camp with your servant Purah. Listen to what the Midianites are saying, and you will be greatly encouraged. Then you will be eager to attack.\""
"profile name": "Rahab", "profile description": "Israelite spies hid in Rahab's house. When the king's men came looking for the spies, Rahab protected them. Her sacrifice and reverence for God gave her favor when the Isrealites eventually conquered the land.", "profile bible infoscan": "In the story of Joshua and the battle of Jericho, Rahab was a woman who hid the two Israelite spies. She hid the spies under bundles of flax on her roof. She then lied to the king's men, telling them that the men had been there but had left Jericho before the gates were closed. Before the spies went to sleep that night, Rahab went up on the roof to talk with them. She said: \"I know the LORD has given you this land. We are all afraid of you. Everyone in the land is living in terror. For we have heard how the LORD made a dry path for you through the Red Sea when you left Egypt. And we know what you did to Sihon and Og, the two Amorite kings east of the Jordan River, whose people you completely destroyed. No wonder our hearts have melted in fear! No one has the courage to fight after hearing such things. For the LORD your God is the supreme God of the heavens above and the earth below\" (\"Joshua:2:8-11\"). That is quite a confession of faith! Rahab believed in the God of the Hebrews and begged for her life and for her family. The spies offered their lives as a guarantee for her safety, as well as her family if she did not betray them. The spies instructed her to leave a scarlet cord hanging in her window so it could be identified during the attack. This protection would also be for her entire family if they remained in her house. Rahab agreed to their terms. Rahab's house was built into the town wall, so she let the spies down by a rope through the window. They escaped to the hill country where they hid for three days from the men searching for them. After helping the spies escape, Rahab left the scarlet rope hanging from the window. (\"Joshua:2:14\"). Rahab tied the scarlet cord in the window so everyone could see it. She believed the spies' promise and acted upon it immediately, not knowing when the attack would come. She put her faith in God - and also in the promise of God's people. When the walls of Jericho collapsed, Joshua sent the two spies to rescue Rahab her whole family as they had promised. \"The men who had been spies went in and brought out Rahab, her father, mother, brothers, and all the other relatives who were with her. They moved her whole family to a safe place near the camp of Israel. Then the Israelites burned the town and everything in it. Only the things made from silver, gold, bronze, or iron were kept for the treasury of the Lord's house. So Joshua spared Rahab the prostitute and her relatives who were with her in the house, because she had hidden the spies Joshua sent to Jericho. And she lives among the Israelites to this day.\" (\"Joshua:6:22\"). Hundreds of years later, her name shows up on the first page of the New Testament when Matthew gives the genealogy of Jesus: \"Salmon the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab, Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth, Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of King David\" (\"Matthew:1:5-6\"). This means Rahab is part of Jesus' family tree! Rahab is also listed as one of the Heroes of Faith. \"It was by faith that Rahab the prostitute was not destroyed with the people in her city who refused to obey God. For she had given a friendly welcome to the spies\" (\"Hebrews:11:31\"). She appears in the book of James as an example of active faith. \"She was shown to be right with God by her actions when she hid those messengers and sent them safely away by a different road\" (\"James:2:25\"). The fact that Rahab had a sinful past and was accepted by her faith should encourage us all. Everyone in the city lost their lives except for Rahab and her family. This shows that by faith in Christ, our old life is gone, and our new life begins. (\"2 Corinthians:5:17\").", "profile life lessons": "It is Okay to ask for the things that you need for yourself and your families.", "profile key scripture": "It was by faith that Rahab the prostitute was not destroyed with the people in her city who refused to obey God. For she had given a friendly welcome to the spies."
"profile name": "Jacob", "profile description": "Jacob was the father of Joseph, Benjamin and his ten older sons. He showed favoritism to Joseph by giving him a coat of many colors. This caused Joseph's older brothers to be filled with jealousy and hatred. Jacob grieved for many years when he believed Joseph was dead. He was later filled with joy to learn Joseph was alive and was now the governor of Egypt! Jacob was reunited with Joseph and lived in Egypt with his entire family until his death. ", "profile bible infoscan": "Jacob's name means \"a supplanter.\" He was born with his hand grasping his twin brother's heel, named Esau. Before he was born, God told his mother, Rebekah, that \"the older would serve the younger\" (\"Genesis:25:23\"). As he grew up, Jacob liked to stay at home, and he was his mother's favorite son. Jacob traded his bowl of stew for his brother's birthright (\"Genesis:25:29-34\"). Jacob obtained Isaac's blessing through deceit and fraud (Genesis 27). He then fled to Haran, and on the way, he had a vision of a ladder or stairway. At that point Jacob vowed that the Lord would be his God (Genesis 28). Jacob served Laban, his uncle, for many years and married his daughters Leah and Rachel (Genesis 29). Jacob had 12 sons and a daughter. He became very wealthy but was still a schemer. He fled from Laban (Genesis 31), and on his journey home, he sent gifts to Esau to ask his forgiveness and to restore their relationship. At Peniel near the Jabbok River, he wrestled with the angel of the Lord (Genesis 32). The angel changed Jacob's name to Israel because he had struggled with both God and man and had won (\"Genesis:32:28\"). Israel literally means \"prince with God.\" Jacob was reunited with his brother, Esau. He asked him for forgiveness, and their relationship was restored (Genesis 33). However, after Jacob and Esau buried their father Isaac after his death, they never saw each other again. God appeared to Jacob at Bethel, blessed him and renewed the covenant promises to Him that had been given to Abraham and Isaac. \"Then God said, \"I am El-Shaddai - 'God Almighty.' Be fruitful and multiply. You will become a great nation, even many nations. Kings will be among your descendants! And I will give you the land I once gave to Abraham and Isaac. Yes, I will give it to you and your descendants after you.\" (\"Genesis:35:11-12\"). Jacob loved Joseph more than his older brothers. This caused much friction and jealousy, especially after Jacob presented Joseph with a colorful robe as a special gift. (\"Genesis:37:3-4\"). Jacob was stricken with grief when the older brothers handed the blood soaked robe of Joseph to him. He was deceived to believe that Joseph had been attacked and killed by a wild animal. \"Then Jacob tore his clothes and dressed himself in burlap. He mourned deeply for his son for a long time. His family tried to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted. \"I will go to my grave mourning for my son,\" he would say, and then he would weep.\" (\"Genesis:37:34-35\"). During the time of famine, Jacob sent his sons to buy grain in Egypt and was overjoyed to discover that Joseph was alive! \"Genesis:45:28\" says, \"Then Jacob exclaimed, \"It must be true! My son Joseph is alive! I must go and see him before I die.\" Jacob and his family did move to Egypt after being invited by Pharaoh to live in the best land of Egypt! (\"Genesis:45:18\"). Jacob had a surprise visit from God as he traveled to Egypt. \"During the night God spoke to him in a vision. \"Jacob! Jacob!\" he called. \"Here I am,\" Jacob replied. \"I am God, the God of your father,\" the voice said. \"Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for there I will make your family into a great nation. I will go with you down to Egypt, and I will bring you back again. You will die in Egypt, but Joseph will be with you to close your eyes.\" (\"Genesis:46:2-4\"). Joseph traveled in his chariot to meet his father when he arrived in Egypt. Joseph embraced his father for a long time and wept. \"Finally, Jacob said to Joseph, \"Now I am ready to die, since I have seen your face again and know you are still alive.\" (\"Genesis:46:30\"). On his deathbed, Jacob blessed his 12 sons individually and also Joseph's two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. When he died, his sons took him back to Canaan to be buried in the family grave at Machpelah (Genesis 48-49).", "profile life lessons": "Love and treat your children the same.", "profile key scripture": "And Jacob named the place Bethel (which means \"house of God\"), because God had spoken to him there."
"profile name": "The Servant Girl", "profile description": "We don't know much about the servant girl who confronted Peter (or girls - as Matthew lists two different servants). The only detail that the Scripture gives us is that the first girl worked for the high priest. Her words were instrumental in coaxing Peter to deny Jesus - just as the Lord had prophesied that he would.", "profile bible infoscan": "Not much information is given in the Bible about the servant girl who recognized Peter as one of Jesus' followers in the courtyard at Caiaphas' home. The account in Matthew seems to suggest two different servant girls. The other Gospel books do not. \"Matthew:26:69-72\" says: \"Meanwhile, Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard. A servant girl came over and said to him, \"You were one of those with Jesus the Galilean.\" But Peter denied it in front of everyone. \"I don't know what you're talking about,\" he said. Later, out by the gate, another servant girl noticed him and said to those standing around, \"This man was with Jesus of Nazareth.\" Again Peter denied it, this time with an oath. \"I don't even know the man,\" he said. Of all people, a lowly servant girl confronts Peter; he couldn't have planned for that! The account in the book of Mark gives us a little more information; one of the servant girls worked for the high priest. She looked at him closely as Peter warmed himself by the fire. She identified Peter as one who was with Jesus. Peter denied it and moved to the entry way. Then, the girl saw him standing there and boldly declared to others that he was definitely a follower of Jesus! (\"Mark:14:66-70\" ; \"Luke:22:56-57\"). John describes a servant girl as \"the woman watching the gate.\" \"John:18:17\" : \"The woman asked Peter, \"You're not one of that man's disciples, are you?\" \"No,\" he said, \"I am not.\" The Bible does not give us many details about the servant girl; however, we do know she played an important role in leading Peter to fulfill Jesus' prediction. (\"Mark:14:71\").", "profile life lessons": "Satan will use people in your life to bring negative peer pressure, but God will give you the strength to overcome.", "profile key scripture": "Meanwhile, Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard. A servant girl came over and said to him, \"You were one of those with Jesus the Galilean.\""
"profile name": "Wise Men", "profile description": "We don't know whether or not the wise men were the smartest men who ever lived, but we do know that they played the part God wanted them to play in the birth of Jesus.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Wise Men are referred to as men from the East (possibly Persia or Arabia) who were led by a star to Palestine to worship the baby born to be king of the Jews (\"Matthew:2:1-12\"). The Greek word for \"wise men\" is \"magoi,\" which means astrologers - people who studied the stars. In the fifth century writings of Herodotus, the Greek historian, the Magi are identified as a caste of Medes who had a priestly function in the Persian Empire. God used their observation of the stars as a way of making the birth of Jesus known. The gifts of the Wise Men and their rejoicing and worship stand in direct contrast to the state and intentions of Herod and his Jewish advisers in Jerusalem.", "profile life lessons": "Let God guide you.", "profile key scripture": "\"Where is the newborn king of the Jews? We saw his star as it rose and we have come to worship him.\""
"profile name": "Pharaoh (Exodus)", "profile description": "The Pharaoh was the leader of Egypt, and Egypt was the greatest civilization in Moses' lifetime. During his lifetime, the Pharaoh had enslaved the Israelites. Eventually, Moses was called to face the Pharaoh and demand that he \"let his people go.\" The king of Egypt was so proud that he refused these demands. The Pharaoh went up against the living God.", "profile bible infoscan": "Pharaoh was the title for Egyptian kings until 323 B.C. In the Egyptian language, the word means \"great house.\" The Egyptians believed that the Pharaoh was a god. While he ruled, he was the Son of Ra, the sun god. His word was law, and he owned everything. He was the head of the army and the central figure in the nation's religious life. After Pharaoh placed Joseph in power, Joseph brought the Israelites to Egypt. His descendants had many children and grandchildren. In fact, they multiplied so greatly that they became extremely powerful and filled the land. Eventually, a new Pharaoh came to power in Egypt who knew nothing about Joseph or what he had done. The Pharaoh told his people, \"Look, the people of Israel now outnumber us and are stronger than we are. We must make a plan to keep them from growing even more. If we don't, and if war breaks out, they will join our enemies and fight against us. Then they will escape from the country\" (\"Exodus:1:10\"). So the Egyptians made the Israelites their slaves. They appointed brutal slave drivers over them, hoping to wear them down with crushing labor. They forced them to build the cities of Pithom and Rameses as supply centers for the king. But the more the Egyptians oppressed them, the more the Israelites multiplied and spread, and the more alarmed the Egyptians became. So, under Pharaoh's orders, the Egyptians worked the people of Israel without mercy. They made their lives bitter, forcing them to mix mortar and make bricks and do all the work in the fields. They were ruthless in all their demands. God called Moses to deliver the Israelites from the ruthless hand of Pharaoh. When Moses went back to Egypt to ask for the freedom of the Israelites, the king of Egypt was so proud that he went up against the living God. After the ten plagues, Pharaoh eventually let the Israelites go. When he changed his mind and tried to chase down the Israelites, God drowned his army and chariots in the Red Sea. Pharaoh had rejected God and His power (\"Exodus:1:7-14\").", "profile life lessons": "God is the one true, Almighty and living God.", "profile key scripture": "And Pharaoh said, 'Who is the LORD, that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the LORD, neither will I let Israel go.'"
"profile name": "Prodigal - Father", "profile description": "The father's heart was broken, yet he gave his son what he asked. When he saw his son coming at a distance, he ran to welcome him home with open arms. The father showed amazing love, mercy, and forgiveness to his son. He was dead and now alive; he was lost and now found! The father in this parable represents God, our heavenly Father, who shows us unconditional love every day!", "profile bible infoscan": "The father in the Prodigal Son parable eagerly watched for his lost son to return home. Then when he saw him approach from a distance, he ran to his son to hug and kiss him. This father represents God, our Heavenly Father. He watches and waits patiently for us to repent of our sin and return home to be with Him! Throughout the Bible, we see countless examples of God's love toward His people. God's love is called \"agape,\" which is unconditional love. No matter what sins we have committed, no matter how far we have wandered away, He offers His grace, His mercy, forgiveness, and love to us! The younger son felt that he was only worthy to be a servant in his father's house. The father had other ideas! He ordered his servants to clothe him in a fine robe, gave him a beautiful ring, and put sandals on his feet. A feast was prepared for the son to celebrate his return home. In the same way, God and all of heaven celebrates when a sinner returns to God and repents. Luke 15:7 says, \"In the same way, there is more joy in heaven over one lost sinner who repents and returns to God than over ninety-nine others who are righteous and haven't strayed away!\" The father in the parable willingly shared what he had with his young son. (\"Luke:15:11-31\"). Likewise, through Christ, we are God's children and joint heirs to God's blessings and promises. (\"Galatians:3:26-29\" ; \"Romans:8:17\").", "profile life lessons": "God never leaves us and He never forsakes us.", "profile key scripture": "And we know that God causes everything to work together for the good of those who love God and are called according to his purpose for them."
"profile name": "Hanani", "profile description": "Hanani was Nehemiah's brother. He reported to Nehemiah about the trouble in Jerusalem. (\"Nehemiah:1:2\"). Nehemiah called his brother a faithful man who feared God. Nehemiah placed Hanani and another man in charge of Jerusalem. The men appointed guards and supervised the operation of the gates to keep Jerusalem secure. (\"Nehemiah:7:1\").", "profile bible infoscan": "Hanani was Nehemiah's brother. Hanani traveled from Judah and reported the condition of Jerusalem to Nehemiah (\"Nehemiah:1:2\"). Nehemiah called his brother a faithful man who feared God. He placed Hanani, and a man named Hananiah, in charge of Jerusalem. These two men appointed guards to keep Jerusalem secure. They also watched over the operation of the gates and the gatekeepers. (\"Nehemiah:7:3\").", "profile life lessons": "Be faithful to God.", "profile key scripture": "I gave the responsibility of governing Jerusalem to my brother Hanani, along with Hananiah, the commander of the fortress, for he was a faithful man who feared God more than most."
"profile name": "The Temple", "profile description": "There have been two temples in the history of the Jewish people, Solomon's Temple, and The Second Temple, which was built by King Herod. These temples stood on Mount Moriah, or the Temple Mount in Jerusalem.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Temple is a place of worship. It is regarded as a dwelling place for the presence of God. There have been three Temples in Jerusalem. The first was built by Solomon and called Solomon's Temple. It is known as the First Temple. King David desired to build a Temple for God. He made plans to build it and even gathered materials to construct it. But, God would not allow him to actually build it. Instead, God allowed David's son Solomon to build it. (\"1 Chronicles;22:1-19\" 19). The temple was dedicated to Yahweh and it housed the Ark of the Covenant. This was a huge celebration and dedication ceremony where God's presence filled the Temple. The priests could not even continue to minister! (1 Kings 8). Solomon's Temple was destroyed by the Babylonians many years after its construction in 587 BC. (2 Kings 25:1-21). The Second Temple, called Zerubbabel's Temple, was rebuilt on the same site by orders of King Cyrus of Persia. The building was stopped once because of opposition and then restarted again. (Ezra 1:1-5; Ezra 5:12). The Third Temple is also called the Jerusalem Temple. It was rebuilt by Herod the Great. He remodeled the Temple and surrounding courts starting in about 20 BC. The temple location was on or near the Dome of Rock which now stands in Jerusalem. In the Temple was the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies. This Temple was where Zechariah served and was burning incense when Gabriel appeared to him to prophesy John the Baptizer's birth. By this time, the Ark of the Covenant had disappeared. In the temple court was the Altar of sacrifice. Inside the Holy Place was the Menorah, a seven-branched lampstand. The lower levels of the Western wall, or Wailing Wall, are what remain of Herod's Temple today. Mary and Joseph brought Jesus to the Temple to present Him to the Lord. ((\"Luke:2:21-39\"). When Jesus was twelve years old, His parents discovered Him in the Temple after the Passover celebration. \"Three days later they finally discovered him in the Temple, sitting among the religious teachers, listening to them and asking questions.\" Jesus responded to his parent's. \"Didn't you know that I must be in my Father's house?\" (Luke 2:45-46, 49). After Jesus' ministry began, He entered the Temple and drove the merchants out. He then knocked over the tables and chairs of the money changers. He said to them, \"The Scriptures declare, 'My Temple will be called a house of prayer,' but you have turned it into a den of thieves!\" (\"Matthew:21:12-13\"). Once, Jesus was in the Temple and observed rich people dropping their large gifts in the collection box. He also observed a poor widow who dropped in two small coins. Jesus said that she gave more than all the rest of them because she gave everything she had. (Luke 21:1-4). Jesus declared Himself to be even greater than the Temple in Matthew 12:6. Talking to the Samaritan woman at the well, Jesus declared that people will worship God in Spirit and Truth. It would no longer matter where you worship God, the Father. (Luke 4:21-24). Jesus predicted the Temple's destruction. (Mark 13:2). Stephen preached that God doesn't live in temples made by human hands. (Acts 7:46-50) The disciples and early Christians worshiped in the Temple. Peter and John healed a crippled beggar there; and Peter preached in the Temple. Paul was falsely accused of defiling the Temple. He was dragged out of the Temple by a mob. He was then beaten and arrested. (Acts 3; Acts 21:27-33). Today, because of Christ, we are called holy and royal priests. The Bible calls us living stones that are built up into His spiritual temple. (\"1 Peter:2:5\"). Paul taught in 1 Corinthians 3:16-17, that we are the temple of God. \"Don't you realize that all of you together are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God lives in you? God will destroy anyone who destroys this temple. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple.\" He also said in 1 Corinthians 6:19-20, \"Don't you realize that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, who lives in you and was given to you by God? You do not belong to yourself, for God bought you with a high price. So you must honor God with your body.\"", "profile life lessons": "God makes His Temple within the heart of every believer.", "profile key scripture": "Don't you realize that all of you together are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God lives in you?"
"profile name": "Peter", "profile description": "Peter was one of Jesus' twelve disciples. Peter was a fisherman on the Sea of Galilee. When Jesus called Peter to follow Him, Peter's life took a completely different direction. He became a \"fisher-of-men.\" Peter was the disciple who climbed out of the boat to walk to Jesus, and he was also the first disciple to recognize Jesus as the Messiah. Peter later became the leader of the emerging church.", "profile bible infoscan": "Simon Peter was one of Jesus' twelve disciples. His father's name was John. (\"Matthew:16:17\" , \"John:1:42\"). Peter's family probably lived at Capernaum, on the northern shore of the Sea of Galilee. (\"Mark:1:21\"). It is also possible they came from Bethsaida (John 1:44). Peter's brother, Andrew, brought him to Jesus. Jesus then changed Simon's name to the Greek name, Peter (in Aramaic, \"Cephas\"). The name Peter means \"rock.\" In the beginning, Peter did not appear to be \"rock-like\". The name probably referred to what Peter would become by the grace of God (Matthew 16:17-19). We know that Peter was married. The Bible tells us that Jesus healed his mother-in-law (Mark 1:29-31, Matthew 8:14-15). The apostle Paul also mentioned that Peter took his wife on his missionary travels. (\"1 Corinthians:9:5\"). Peter and his brother Andrew were fishermen on the Sea of Galilee. They also may have been partners in the fishing business with James and John, the sons of Zebedee. (Luke 5:10). When Jesus called Peter to follow Him, Peter's life took a new direction. He became a \"fisher-of-men\" (\"Matthew:4:18-20\"). When Jesus called his disciples (learners or apprentices), to be apostles (commissioned representatives), Peter was named first among them. (\"Mark:3:14-16\"). Peter was a strong individual who was often the spokesman for the disciples. He became their recognized leader (\"Mark:1:36\" ,\"Luke:22:32\"). Peter always acted quickly. He was the disciple who climbed out of the boat to walk to Jesus (\"Matthew:14:28\"). He was the first disciple to recognize Jesus as the Messiah (\"Matthew:16:13-17\"). Peter's \"act or speak before you think\" nature often got him into trouble. He drew his sword and cut off the ear of the high priest's slave in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus rebuked Him and healed the man's ear. (\"John:18:10-11\"). Jesus predicted that Peter would deny Him before the rooster crowed the next morning. Peter replied, \"Even if all fall away on account of you, I never will.\" \"I tell you the truth,\" Jesus answered, \"this very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.\" But Peter declared, \"Even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you.\" And all the other disciples said the same. Unfortunately, Peter did deny knowing Jesus three times as He had predicted. This event affected Peter in a deep way. In Luke 22:31, Jesus revealed to Peter that Satan had asked for permission to sift Peter like wheat. Jesus could have protected Peter and not allowed Satan to sift him. But, Jesus wanted to equip Peter to strengthen his brothers (\"Luke:22:32\"). After Jesus' death, Peter went fishing with the other disciples. Jesus appeared to them and Jesus called Peter to follow Him again and to care for and feed His sheep. Jesus had come to Peter to restore Him and send Him out again to work in His kingdom! (\"John:21:1-19\"). With renewed purpose, Peter trained and encouraged others to follow the Lord Jesus. God used Peter's failures to turn him from Petros, which means \"small stone,\" into Petra, \"the Rock.\" Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit on the Day of Pentecost. The man who once denied Jesus now boldly stood preaching to crowds and in the Temple. Peter became a strong and fearless leader in the early church (Acts 1:14-41, Acts 3:12-26). Through the power of the Holy Spirit, Peter performed miracles. He healed a crippled beggar (\"Acts:3:1-11\") and many others (\"Acts:5:12-16\"). He was imprisoned for preaching about Jesus, but he escaped miraculously (\"Acts:12:6-19\"). After seeing a vision, Peter was the first to take the Gospel to the Gentiles (Acts 10). He played a key role at the council of Jerusalem (Acts 15, Galatians 2). Here it was decided that Gentiles could become church members without first becoming Jews. Peter wrote two letters, 1 Peter and 2 Peter. These are often called epistles. In the letters he encouraged the readers facing persecution and suffering for their faith. He urged them to live as people who belong to Christ. According to early Christian tradition, Peter died in Rome.", "profile life lessons": "Jesus forgives, strengthens, and restores us to help others.", "profile key scripture": "A third time he asked him, \"Simon son of John, do you love me?\" Peter was hurt that Jesus asked the question a third time. He said, \"Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you.\" Jesus said, \"Then feed my sheep.\""
"profile name": "The Law of the Medes and Persians", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Media was the name of an ancient country in Asia. It is now included in parts of Iran, Iraq, and Turkey. The history of the Medes is complex because it involved many alliances with several nations, as well as the rise and fall of these nations. During the era of Nebuchadnezzar and the time of the prophet Jeremiah (about 605-552 B.C.), the Median kingdom was at the height of its power. It dominated Persia until the time of Cyrus, the founder of the Persian Empire. Cyrus defeated Media in 549 B.C. However, Media remained the most important province and the dual name, \"Medes and Persians,\" was used. This term \"The Laws of the Medes and Persians\" was used to describe unchangeable laws. Even the king was powerless to change a law. We read about the unalterable Laws of the Medes and Persians in \"Esther:1:19\" and \"Daniel:6:8\" .", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"And now, Your Majesty, issue and sign this law so it cannot be changed, an official law of the Medes and Persians that cannot be revoked.\""
"profile name": "David (Adult)", "profile description": "David was the youngest of Jesse's eight sons. During his life, he was a shepherd, musician, poet, soldier and king. He was a pretty busy fellow, for real. When Saul was rejected as King of Israel by God for his rebellion and disobedience, Samuel was sent to anoint the young boy, David, to eventually replace Saul. David did not actually take the throne and serve as king until later. In the meantime, David remained a shepherd and also began to serve King Saul. David played his harp and the music helped to calm the troubled ruler when he was tormented by an evil spirit. David also served as the king's armor bearer (\"1 Samuel:16:1\").", "profile bible infoscan": "David was the youngest of Jesse's eight sons. During his life, he was a shepherd, musician, poet, soldier and king. He was a pretty busy fellow, for real. When Saul was rejected as King of Israel by God for his rebellion and disobedience, Samuel was sent to anoint the young boy, David, to eventually replace Saul. David did not actually take the throne and serve as king until later. In the meantime, David remained a shepherd and also began to serve King Saul. David played his harp and the music helped to calm the troubled ruler when he was tormented by an evil spirit. David also served as the king's armor bearer (\"1 Samuel:16:1\"). David trusted in God when even when Israel's army was afraid of Goliath, the Philistine giant. David was more offended that the giant mocked God, than being concerned for his own safety. He had trusted God as a shepherd to fight wild animals, and he would trust God to help him defeat Goliath! And, that is exactly what David did with God's help (\"1 Samuel:17:32\"). David faithfully and humbly served Saul. He did everything that was asked of him. Saul then made David commander of his army. David's promotion was welcomed by Saul's officers and the people of Israel. This is where the relationship between Saul and David began to go downhill. Saul became jealous and afraid of David's military success and fame. He was angry that David received the praise of the people (\"1 Samuel:18:5\"). King Saul was so jealous of David that he tried to kill him. Michal, David's wife (who was also Saul's daughter) helped him escape (\"1 Samuel:19:9\"). David and Jonathan, Saul's son, had become best friends. They made a pact to always be there for each other. When Saul was determined to kill David, Jonathan, like his sister, helped David escape. This made Saul even angrier that both his children had betrayed him! (\"1 Samuel:18:1-4\"). Saul became obsessed with killing David. He spent many years chasing him. On two occasions, David could have killed Saul, but he did not because he honored Saul as God's anointed king (\"1 Samuel:24:1\"). After Saul's death, David was anointed king over Judah, and then king over all Israel (\"2 Samuel:2\"). David trusted and believed in a faithful and forgiving God. When he sinned, he admitted his mistakes, confessed his sin, and received forgiveness. When he committed adultery and even murder, his confessions and repentance were genuine, but he still had to face the consequences of his sin (\"2 Samuel:12:1\"). Later in David's life, he desired to build God a house (Temple). However, God told David, through the prophet Nathan, that David could not do this. God said David had shed too much blood over many years on the battlefield. But, God would allow David's son (Solomon) to build the temple for him! This pleased David and he helped Solomon to prepare for the amazing project! (\"1 Chronicles:22:6\"). David's son Solomon became king after David died (\"1 Kings:2:1\"). The Bible describes David as \"a man after God's own heart\" (\"1 Samuel:13:14\"). During David's reign as king, he asked God to bless him and his family. His dynasty continued forever, because one of his descendants was Jesus Christ. (\"2 Samuel:7:29\"). David was the greatest king of Israel and a part of Jesus' family!", "profile life lessons": "Be kind and generous to others.", "profile key scripture": "\"But God removed Saul and replaced him with David, a man about whom God said, 'I have found David son of Jesse, a man after my own heart. He will do everything I want him to do.\""
"profile name": "King of Nineveh", "profile description": "The King of Nineveh reigned over a kingdom that was known for its spiritual darkness. But after hearing God's message from Jonah, the king led his people in repentance for their sin, and God spared Nineveh from judgment.", "profile bible infoscan": "The King of Nineveh reigned over a kingdom that was known for its spiritual darkness (\"Jonah:4:11\"). Because of the sins committed by the Ninevites, God determined to destroy Nineveh. But before destroying the city, God directed His prophet, Jonah, to announce His judgment in the city so that the kingdom would have the opportunity to repent from their sins (\"Jonah:1:2\"). After hearing God's message from Jonah, the king led his people in repentance for their sin, and God spared Nineveh from judgment (\"Jonah:3:6-10\").", "profile life lessons": "The proud will be humbled.", "profile key scripture": "\"Who can tell? Perhaps even yet God will change his mind and hold back his fierce anger from destroying us.\""
"profile name": "The Rainbow Covenant", "profile description": "God placed a rainbow in the sky as a sign of His covenant with Noah and every living creature on earth. God promised to never destroy the earth again by a flood. When we see a rainbow in the sky, we are reminded of God's judgement, faithfulness, grace, and mercy.", "profile bible infoscan": "God made a covenant with Noah, his sons, and every living creature on the earth. \"Then God said, \"I am giving you a sign of My covenant with you and with all living creatures, for all generations to come. I have placed My rainbow in the clouds. It is the sign of my covenant with you and with all the earth. When I send clouds over the earth, the rainbow will appear in the clouds, and I will remember My covenant with you and with all living creatures. Never again will the floodwaters destroy all life.\" (\"Genesis:9:12-18\"). This is an unconditional covenant which means it is not dependent on any action by man. It is only based on God's faithfulness to keep His promises. God will destroy the earth one day by fire; not by water. (\"2 Peter:3:6-7\"). God said in \"Genesis:8:22\" Genesis 8:22: \"As long as the earth remains, there will be planting and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night.\" This is something we can count on until Jesus returns to earth one day. When we see a rainbow in the clouds, we are reminded of God's judgment, and also of His faithfulness, grace, and mercy. He lovingly provided a way of escape to Noah in the ark, and to us today through the blood of Jesus.", "profile life lessons": "God placed a sign in the sky to remind Noah and us of His faithfulness to His promise.", "profile key scripture": "When I see the rainbow in the clouds, I will remember the eternal covenant between God and every living creature on earth."
"profile name": "King Darius", "profile description": "King Darius ruled over Babylon, and he thought very highly of Daniel (Daniel 6). However, it appears that he thought very highly of himself, as well, because he agreed to a law that commanded everyone in the Empire to pray to him or be thrown into a den of lions.", "profile bible infoscan": "Some historians question whether Darius was the king's name, but one thing we do know about King Darius is that he thought very highly of Daniel (\"Daniel:6\" However, it appears that he was a proud man who liked the idea of being treated as a god. His court officials appealed to his sense of pride when they asked him to sign a law forcing everyone to pray only to him for thirty days. He was very upset when he realized his law affected Daniel and there was nothing he could do about it. When he discovered that Daniel's God had protected him, he made a decree that all people should worship Daniel's God -- the God of the Bible.", "profile life lessons": "Don't use your influence for selfish ambition.", "profile key scripture": "\"I decree that everyone throughout my kingdom should tremble with fear before the God of Daniel. For he is the living God, and he will endure forever. His kingdom will never be destroyed, and his rule will never end. He rescues and saves his people; he performs miraculous signs and wonders in the heavens and on earth. He has rescued Daniel from the power of the lions.\""
"profile name": "Eden", "profile description": "The word Eden means \"delight,\" and it was into this Garden of Delight that God placed Adam and Eve. Eden was such an amazing place. We usually refer to it as the \"Garden OF Eden,\" but it has been suggested that it is more accurate to refer to it as the \"Garden IN Eden,\" with Eden being an area or region. The location of Eden is described in \"Genesis:2:10-14\" .", "profile bible infoscan": "The word Eden means \"delight,\" and it was into this Garden of Delight that God placed Adam and Eve. Eden was such an amazing place. We usually refer to it as the \"Garden OF Eden,\" but it has been suggested that it is more accurate to refer to it as the \"Garden IN Eden,\" with Eden being an area or region. The location of Eden is described in \"Genesis:2:10-14\" . Four rivers--the Pishon, Gihon, Tigris, and Euphrates--are mentioned, as well as three regions--Havilah, Assyria, and Cush. No one knows for certain exactly where Eden was located, but many experts theorize that Eden was at the headwaters of the Tigris and Euphrates (northern Mesopotamia) in Iraq (Mesopotamia).", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "The Lord God placed the man in the Garden of Eden to tend and watch over it."
"profile name": "Hyssop", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Hyssop (pronounced like \"hiccup\") was an aromatic shrub less than one meter (three feet) tall. It had clusters of yellow flowers, and it grew in rocky crevices or was cultivated on terraced walls. Bunches of hyssop (bundles of hyssop branches) were used to sprinkle blood on the door frames in Egypt (\"Exodus:12:22\") and later in purification ceremonies (\"Leviticus:14:51-52\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "Then take a bundle of hyssop branches and dip it into the blood. Brush the hyssop across the top and sides of the doorframes of your houses."
"profile name": "The Ark of the Covenant", "profile description": "The Ark of the Covenant was carried by the priests into the Jordan River. The waters backed up to allow the Israelites to go across on dry land. The Ark represented God's presence as the priests carried the Ark in front of the people as they marched around Jericho and the walls collapsed on the seventh day.", "profile bible infoscan": "God instructed to Moses to build a sanctuary so He could live among His people as they journeyed to the Promised Land. This is called the Tabernacle. Next, God told Moses to build an Ark.The Ark would stay in the Tabernacle. Here are the instructions God gave to Moses regarding the Ark: \"Have the people make an Ark of acacia wood - a sacred chest 45 inches long, 27 inches wide, and 27 inches high. Overlay it inside and outside with pure gold, and run a molding of gold all around it. Cast four gold rings and attach them to its four feet, two rings on each side. Make poles from acacia wood, and overlay them with gold. Insert the poles into the rings at the sides of the Ark to carry it. These carrying poles must stay inside the rings; never remove them. When the Ark is finished, place inside it the stone tablets inscribed with the terms of the covenant, which I will give to you. \"Then make the Ark's cover - the place of atonement - from pure gold. It must be 45 inches long and 27 inches wide. Then make two cherubim of hammered gold, and place them on the two ends of the atonement cover. Mold the cherubim on each end of the atonement cover, making it all of one piece of gold. The cherubim will face each other and look down on the atonement cover. With their wings spread above it, they will protect it. Place inside the Ark the stone tablets inscribed with the terms of the covenant, which I will give to you. Then put the atonement cover on top of the Ark. I will meet with you there and talk to you from above the atonement cover between the gold cherubim that hover over the Ark of the Covenant. From there I will give you my commands for the people of Israel.\" The Ark was placed in the Tabernacle. There, God would meet with Moses and instruct him. God instructed Moses to place the stone tablets of the Ten Commandment, which he had received on Mt. Sinai, in the Ark. (\"Exodus:25:1-22\"). A gold jar containing manna and Aaron's rod that sprouted leaves were also placed in the Ark. (\"Hebrews:9:4\"). These items were symbols of God's care for the Israelites when He brought them out of Egypt and as they traveled to the Promised Land. These items also represented the coming Messiah.", "profile life lessons": "The Lord goes before His people.", "profile key scripture": "When you see the Levitical priests carrying the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God, move out from your positions and follow them."
"profile name": "Eliab", "profile description": "Talk about a big brother with some character issues. Eliab thought he should be chosen king of Israel by Samuel, but Samuel decision was led by God's Spirit, not by Eliab's size, strength, and good looks.", "profile bible infoscan": "Eliab was the eldest son of Jesse and, thus, the older brother of King David. He was apparently tall and had fair features but not the proper heart to be king of Israel. \"Do not consider his appearance or his height...the Lord looks at the heart\" (\"1 Samuel:16:7\"). One negative thing about Eliab was his temper, as witnessed when he argued with his youngest brother before David went to fight Goliath (\"1 Samuel:17:28\").", "profile life lessons": "God looks at the heart.", "profile key scripture": "But the LORD said to Samuel, \"Do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The LORD does not look at the things people look at. People look at the outward appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart.\""
"profile name": "Sanballat", "profile description": "Sanballat was the governor of Samaria. He opposed the work of Nehemiah in Jerusalem from the start. Sanballat, and his friends, Tobiah, and Greshem, taunted and mocked the Israelites as they worked on the wall. Sanballat tried many times to deceive and trick Nehemiah to hinder and stop his work. Sanballat's plans did not succeed against God's plan!", "profile bible infoscan": "Sanballat was a governor of Samaria. Nehemiah called him a Horonite. This means he most likely lived in the area of Beth-Horon. God drove the Horonites out of the Promised Land when the Israelites first arrived (\"Joshua:16:3\"). Sanballat's daughter married the grandson of Eliashib, the high priest. God's Law forbids mixed marriages - especially with priests. Because of this, Nehemiah banished the grandson from him! (\"Nehemiah:13:28\"). Sanballat opposed the Israelite's work from the time Nehemiah set foot in Jerusalem. Sanballat, Tobiah, and Greshem taunted the Israelites. They accused Nehemiah of rebelling against the king of Persia (\"Nehemiah:2:10\"). Nehemiah would not stop! Sanballat became enraged and mocked the Jews, along with his two friends and the Samarian officers. When the wall was almost finished; Sanballat made plans to attack the city. Nehemiah prayed and God protected them (\"Nehemiah:4:8\"). Sanballat still would not give up! Four times, he sent a message to Nehemiah to meet him outside of Jerusalem. Each time, Nehemiah replied that he was too busy with God's work to come. Nehemiah knew that it was an evil plot to harm him! Sanballat tried one more time. He hired Shemaiah, whom Nehemiah trusted, to convince him to hide from danger in the Temple. Nehemiah again determined this was a plot to stop his work! Nehemiah cried out in prayer to God. He asked Him to remember all the evil things that Sanballat and Tobiah had done! (\"Nehemiah:6:14\").", "profile life lessons": "No plan can succeed against God.", "profile key scripture": "Sanballat was very angry when he learned that we were rebuilding the wall. He flew into a rage and mocked the Jews."
"profile name": "Aaron", "profile description": "Aaron was Moses' brother. When God called Moses to lead the Hebrew people out of slavery in Egypt, Aaron became his \"official spokesman.\" Aaron ended up becoming the first high priest of the Israelites, but the beginnings of his ministry were questionable. He succumbed to the demands of the Israelites to worship a golden calf. I know you're thinking, \"A golden calf?\" but it's true.", "profile bible infoscan": "Aaron was Moses' brother. He was married to Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab (\"Exodus:6:23\"). When God called Moses to lead the Hebrew people out of slavery in Egypt, Moses protested that he was not a good public speaker. God then chose Aaron, who was very well-spoken, to be Moses' official spokesman. At Moses' instruction, Aaron also performed miracles as signs (for example, Aaron's staff turned into a serpent and swallowed the staffs of the Egyptian magicians in (\"Exodus:7:8-20\"). During the wanderings in the wilderness, Aaron's staff was the only one that produced buds, blossoms, and almonds. This was an indication that God was choosing Aaron and his descendants as priests (\"Numbers:17:1-10\"). Aaron became a leader alongside his brother, Moses. He helped Moses keep order and give judgments during the years in the wilderness. When the priesthood was instituted, Aaron became the first high priest of Israel (\"Exodus:28-29\"). He became the spiritual leader of the nation, but he committed a serious sin when he yielded to the pressure of the people and built the golden calf for them to worship. This was happening while Moses was at the top of the mountain praying and receiving the Ten Commandments. Moses prayed to God on Aaron's behalf, and God spared his life. Aaron handed over his priestly garments to his son Eleazar on Mount Hor and then died. After his death, the community mourned for 30 days (\"Numbers:20:22-29\"). Like Moses, Aaron did not enter the Promised Land.", "profile life lessons": "Be willing to be part of a team.", "profile key scripture": "Then the Lord said to Moses, \"Pay close attention to this. I will make you seem like God to Pharaoh, and your brother, Aaron, will be your prophet."
"profile name": "The Book of Life", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The Book of Life is a heavenly book in which the names of the righteous (those who are saved or redeemed through Jesus) are written. The idea of there being a \"book of life\" was first mentioned by Moses. He interceded for the Israelites after they had sinned by worshiping the golden calf. He prayed that God would erase his name from God's written record instead of punishing the Israelites (\"Exodus:32:32-33\"). Keeping records of names in books was a familiar concept to the Jews because of the practice of registering people by genealogy (family trees) and by keeping a record of priests and Levites (\"Nehemiah:12:22-33\") (\"Nehemiah:7:5\"). At the end of time, those whose names are not written in the Book of Life will be \"cast into the lake of fire\" (\"Revelation:13:8\" , \"Revelation:20:15\"), but those whose names appear in the Book of Life will be allowed to enter New Jerusalem (\"Revelation:21:27\"). God is a loving and forgiving God who has made a way for us to have our names written in the Book of Life. This happens when we realize we are sinners, confess our sins, and believe in Jesus who died on the cross in our place as punishment for sin. We become the children of God and inherit eternal life. As citizens of heaven, we are allowed into the \"New Jerusalem\" where we can spend eternity with God.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Nothing will ever be allowed to enter, nor anyone who practices shameful idolatry and dishonesty - but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.\""
"profile name": "Sarah", "profile description": "Abram wasn't the only person in this story who got a name change. Sarai was Abraham's wife (Genesis 11:29), and God changed her name from Sarai to Sarah. She helped her husband show hospitality to the three visitors who came to tell them that they would have a son (Genesis 18:6). She later gave birth to her son Isaac when she was 90 years old, 25 years after God's Promise.", "profile bible infoscan": "Abram wasn't the only person in this story who got a name change. Sarai was Abram's wife (\"Genesis:11:29\") and half sister (\"Genesis:20:12\"). God changed Abram's name to Abraham, and He also changed Sarai's name to Sarah, which means \"princess\" (\"Genesis:17:15\"). Sarah helped her husband show hospitality to the three visitors who came to tell them that they would have a son (\"Genesis:18:6\"). Although she laughed at the thought of having a baby in her old age (\"Genesis:18:12\"), lied about it, and later tried to work out God's plans on her own (\"Genesis:16:1-3\"), she is known as a woman of faith (\"Hebrews:11:11\"). Sarah gave birth to her son Isaac when she was 90 years old, 25 years after God's promise. She died at Hebron at the age of 127 years and was buried in the cave of Machpelah, which Abraham bought from Ephron the Hittite (\"Genesis:23:1-2\"). She is the only woman in Scripture whose age of death is recorded.", "profile life lessons": "Even if we fail God, He responds to our faith.", "profile key scripture": "It was by faith that Sarah was able to have a child, though she was barren and was too old. She believed that God would keep his promise."
"profile name": "Mary Magdalene", "profile description": "After Jesus cast out seven demons from Mary, she became His follower. She was the first to see the risen Christ, and Jesus sent her to tell the others she had witnessed His resurrection.", "profile bible infoscan": "The name Magdalene suggests that Mary came from the town Magdala. After Jesus cast out seven demons from Mary, she became His follower (\"Mark:16:9\" , \"Luke:8:2\"). It has been suggested that Mary Magdalene was the \"Mary\" or \"certain woman\" in some of the stories in the Bible, but there is no evidence for us to know for certain that it was her. What we do know is that Mary Magdalene witnessed most of the events around Jesus' crucifixion. She was present at His trial when Pilate gave the death sentence, and she was one of the women who watched the crucifixion from a distance (\"Mark:15:40\"). She was the first to see the risen Christ, and she was sent by Jesus to tell the others she had witnessed His resurrection (\"John:20:11-18\").", "profile life lessons": "Show others that you are a follower of Jesus by the things you say and do.", "profile key scripture": "What is important is faith expressing itself in love."
"profile name": "Jacob Wrestles with God", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "\"Genesis:32:22-32\" tells the story of Jacob wrestling with a supernatural being. Some scholars believe the being that Jacob wrestled with was a man, some say an angel, and others say it was God (a pre-Bethlehem appearance of Jesus). Jacob wrestled throughout the night until the being touched Jacob's hip so that it came out of its socket. It was at this point that the being told Jacob, \"Let me go, for the dawn is breaking\" (\"Genesis:32:26\"), but Jacob wouldn't let go until he received a blessing. After this interaction, the being blessed Jacob and gave him a new name, \"Israel.\" After this encounter, Jacob named the place \"Peniel,\" which means \"face of God,\" for Jacob said, \"I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been spared\" (\"Genesis:32:30\"). It's because of this name \"Peniel\" that many believe that Jacob wrestled with God. This event was a turning point in Jacob's life where he moved from relying on the deception of people for gain (\"Genesis:25:27-34\" , \"Genesis:27:1-29\") to a man of character that relied on God for His provision.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "This left Jacob all alone in the camp, and a man came and wrestled with him until the dawn began to break."
"profile name": "Jesse", "profile description": "I bet there was never a dull moment at this guy's house! Jesse was the father of eight sons; his youngest was named David. Life was fairly normal for him until the prophet Samuel came to visit his house.", "profile bible infoscan": "Jesse was the father of eight sons; the youngest one was David. One day the prophet Samuel, led by God's Spirit, came to Jesse's home in order to anoint the next king of Israel. After seeing seven of Jesse's sons, Samuel knew that none of them were to be the next king, so he asked Jesse if he had another son. Jesse sent for his youngest son, David, who had been tending to the flocks of sheep. Samuel then anointed David as Israel's next king (\"1 Samuel:16\"). Some time later, Jesse sent David to play the harp for King Saul to help soothe Saul from being tormented by evil spirits. After this came the time when Jesse sent David with food to give to David's brothers, who were in King Saul's army. This, of course, led to David's encounter with the giant from Gath, Goliath. As King Saul grew paranoid of David's success and wanted to kill him, David went to Mizpah in Moab to ask permission from the king to allow Jesse and his mother to stay under their protection of that king.", "profile life lessons": "Don't always think that God wants the physically strongest person.", "profile key scripture": "\"Fill your flask with olive oil and go to Bethlehem. Find a man named Jesse who lives there, for I have selected one of his sons to be my king.\""
"profile name": "Eliezer", "profile description": "Eliezer told Abraham that he would find a bride for Isaac. Abraham had a lot of trust for Isaac. He trusted Eliezer so much that he put him in charge of everything. Eliezer was free to take whatever he felt was necessary. Nothing was kept from him.", "profile bible infoscan": "He chose ten of Abraham's very best camels and loaded them with supplies for the trip. He also packed several expensive gifts to give to the young lady. Eliezer took his mission seriously. As soon as he reached the gates he prayed. He got off the camels and also made them kneel down. He said: O LORD, God of my master, please give me success today, and show unfailing love to my master, Abraham. (\"Genesis:24:12\"). He performed a test to see who was destined to be Isaac's bride. He planned to ask one for a drink. If she says yes she will be the chosen one. (\"Genesis:24:14\") Before he had finished praying, he saw a young woman named Rebekah coming out with her water jug.", "profile life lessons": "Trust in God and His promises.", "profile key scripture": "\"O LORD, God of my master, please give me success today, and show unfailing love to my master, Abraham.\""
"profile name": "Saul/Paul", "profile description": "Saul, the son of a Pharisee (Acts 23:6), was born in Tarsus, an important Greek city. He grew up to be a brilliant scholar of Jewish laws and customs and had a great future as one of the leading Pharisees. Saul looked for Christians so that he could persecute them, but Jesus sought Saul out and changed Saul's life forever. Through this encounter with Jesus, Saul's named was changed to Paul and became the greatest missionary of Christianity.", "profile bible infoscan": "Saul, the son of a Pharisee (\"Acts:23:6\"), was born in Tarsus, an important Greek city. He was brought up in the strict Jewish culture, and he learned the trade of leather-work and tent-making. He went to Jerusalem where he studied under Gamaliel, a famous teacher who taught Jewish laws and customs. He was a brilliant scholar who had a great future as one of the leading Pharisees. Saul believed that those who followed Jesus told lies about God and were a threat to the Jewish religion. He made it his mission to stamp out Christianity. He got letters of authority from the Jewish leaders to arrest any Christians he found and to put them in prison. But on the road to Damascus, Saul had a personal encounter with Jesus and became a follower himself. Besides being Jewish, he was also a Roman citizen, and after he became a Christian, he was referred to by his Roman name, Paul (\"Acts:13:9\"). He realized that Jesus Christ was the promised Messiah, the Son of God, and that faith in Him, and not in the Jewish law, was how a person was made right in God's eyes. When Saul became Paul, he didn't just have a name change. His life turned around 180 degrees. He went from being a Christian-hater to being a leader among Christ-followers. Paul became a great preacher of the Gospel and teacher of Christianity. He made three main missionary journeys (\"Acts:13-21\"), preaching, establishing, and then visiting churches in different parts of the Roman Empire. His preaching caused riots (\"Acts:19\" offended the Jewish leaders. He suffered hardships when he was arrested and imprisoned (\"Acts:17\") (\"Acts:27\") placed under house arrest (\"Acts:28\") wrote letters to individuals and to churches, some while he was in prison. We can read these in the New Testament. This man whom God changed much did much to change the world for God.", "profile life lessons": "No matter how bad you are and what you have done, God can help you change.", "profile key scripture": "\"For I fully expect and hope that I will never be ashamed, but that I will continue to be bold for Christ, as I have been in the past.\""
"profile name": "Moses", "profile description": "At God's direction, Moses led the Israelites out of the slavery they suffered in Egypt. After their dramatic escape through the Red Sea, the real adventure of trusting God's provision started. As the leader of the Israelites, Moses faced many challenges, some of the biggest which took place upon his arrival to Mount Sinai.", "profile bible infoscan": "Moses, the son of Amram and Jochebed (\"Exodus:6:18-20\"), was a Hebrew who was born at the time when a cruel pharaoh wanted to prevent the Hebrew population from increasing. Pharaoh ordered that no more male Hebrew children should be allowed to live. Moses' mother, however, hid him and then placed him in a basket on the River Nile where Pharaoh's daughter found him. The princess decided to adopt the baby and bring him up as her son. His own mother was able to look after him until he was old enough to live in the palace. In these early years, Moses was taught the faith of his ancestors (\"Exodus:2:1-10\"). Although Moses had a privileged upbringing in the palace, he never forgot his own Hebrew people. He wanted to help them, but when it was discovered he killed an Egyptian, he had to flee for his life. He went to live in Midian where he met Jethro and worked as a shepherd. Moses married Zipporah, one of Jethro's seven daughters. He spent forty years there in exile before God spoke to him through a burning bush. God called Moses to lead His people out of bondage and out of Egypt. After making several excuses, Moses finally obeyed and went with Aaron (his brother) to Egypt. Before Pharaoh allowed them to leave, the Egyptians experienced the ten plagues - and God's power. Moses led God's people across the Red Sea. And then for forty years, he led them through the wilderness. He ultimately led them to Mount Sinai where God had spoken to him from the burning bush (\"Exodus:3:12\"). During the long journey, the people began to murmur and complain. They soon forgot the trials in Egypt. They kept looking back and thinking that life was harder in the wilderness than when they were in bondage. Moses, however, patiently focused on his mission. God miraculously provided the manna and the quail (\"Exodus:16\" feed the Israelites in the wilderness. When Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, gave him sound advice on how to prevent burn-out and to lead the people better, Moses delegated responsibility to subordinate rulers who would judge the people in small cases (\"Exodus:18\" the Israelites arrived at Mount Sinai, Moses went up into the mountain to meet with God. The Lord appeared in a terrific storm with thunder and lightning and a thick cloud (\"Exodus:19:16\"). During His encounter with God, Moses received the Ten Commandments and founded the religious community known as Israel (\"Exodus:20\" the Law, Moses taught his people all that the Lord expected of them. They were to be a holy people, separated from the surrounding pagan, idol-worshiping tribes, a people who put God first and who followed His rules. When the Israelites finally arrived at the Promised Land (Canaan), Moses' work was done. However, he was not allowed to enter the land as he had disobeyed God previously (\"Numbers:20:1-13\"). Moses renewed the Sinai Covenant with the survivors of the wanderings in the wilderness, praised God, and blessed the people, tribe by tribe (\"Deuteronomy:33:1-29\"). Then he climbed Mount Nebo, viewed the Promised Land, and died. The Israelites never saw him again, and the circumstances of his death and burial remain a mystery (\"Numbers:34:1-8\").", "profile life lessons": "You don't have to be perfect for God to use you to help others.", "profile key scripture": "God answered, \"I will be with you. And this is your sign that I am the one who has sent you: When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will worship God at this very mountain.\""
"profile name": "Jerusalem", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Jesus rode into Jerusalem on a donkey. During Bible times, Jerusalem was a sacred city and the capital of Palestine. It is still the religious capital of the Jewish people. The name means \"possession of peace.\" The city of Jerusalem is mentioned directly for the first time in the Bible when Joshua entered Canaan, the Promised Land. It was called Jebus. When David became king, he wanted to unite the tribes in the north and south. He captured Jerusalem from the Jebusites and made the city the political and religious capital of the kingdom (\"1 Chronicles:11:4-9\"). David named the city \"Jerusalem.\" He chose Jerusalem as the capital as it was in the center between the northern and southern tribes, and it was situated on a hill, which made it easy to defend. Jesus visited the Temple in Jerusalem. In biblical times, three temples were built on the same site. The first Temple was built by King David's son, King Solomon. However, in 587 B.C., Jerusalem was attacked by the Babylonians, and the Temple was destroyed. It was later rebuilt (about 537 B.C.) by Zerubbabel and even later in history, turned into a fortress. King Herod built the third temple, and this is the Temple Jesus visited after He rode into Jerusalem on a donkey. As Jesus prophesied in Matthew 23, the city of Jerusalem was completely destroyed by the Romans in A.D. 70. In 1919, Jerusalem once again became the capital city of Palestine and is now the capital of Israel, though not internationally recognized as such.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Shout in triumph, O people of Jerusalem! Look, your king is coming to you. He is righteous and victorious, yet he is humble, riding on a donkey- riding on a donkey's colt.\""
"profile name": "Elijah", "profile description": "Elijah stood up boldly for God in a time when idolatry had swept his land. After a three-year drought, Elijah went out to confront the king and his false prophets. Confident of the power of God, Elijah challenged the 450 prophets of Baal and the 400 prophets of the false god Asherah to a showdown on Mount Carmel.", "profile bible infoscan": "The name Elijah means, \"My God is Yah (weh).\" Elijah stood up boldly for God. He proclaimed the Word of the Lord in a time when the worship of idols was gaining strength. Elijah is regarded as one of the most powerful Old Testament prophets. He did not shy away from speaking God's Word to kings and other leaders. He was similar in rugged appearance to John the Baptist (\"2 Kings:1:8\"). God told Elijah to hide by the Kerith Brook by God's direction after delivering the message about the drought to King Ahab. God then commanded ravens to bring meat to Elijah to eat. God told Elijah to leave the brook when the water dried up and travel to Zarephath to stay with a widow. Through Elijah, God performed a miracle to provide endless flour and oil to the widow and her son to eat until the drought ended. This was to reward her faith for opening her house to Elijah, and by faith, giving him her last meal. Elijah raised the widow's son to life after he became sick and died (I Kings 17). Elijah is sometimes referred to as the prophet of fire. He called down fire twice to destroy soldiers sent by an evil king that had come to arrest Elijah after he delivered God's Word of judgment to the king (\"2 Kings:1:1-12\"). Elijah also called down fire from heaven when he challenged King Ahab, Jezebel, and the 850 prophets of Baal and Asherah on Mount Carmel. The fire burnt up the water soaked sacrifice, the stone altar, and even the ground around the altar. Through this bold act of Elijah's faith and trust in God, the people turned to God and cried out, \"The Lord, He is God!\" Then Elijah commanded the people to seize all the prophets of Baal and have them killed in the Kishon Valley. (\"1 Kings:18:16-40\"). After the confrontation with Ahab, Elijah prayed, and the rain fell on Israel for the first time in more than three years. Then the God's Spirit came upon Elijah, giving him special strength to outrun Ahab's chariot all the way back to the entrance of Jezreel! (\"1 Kings:18:41-45\"). Elijah was a bold prophet, yet he still was human. Jezebel was furious that Elijah had killed her prophets, and she vowed to kill him. In fear, Elijah ran into the wilderness, sat under a tree, and asked God to take his life. Instead, God sent an angel to feed and strengthen Elijah. He then traveled for 40 days and 40 nights to Mount Horeb by God's strength. God then appeared to Elijah in front of a cave. God sent a windstorm, earthquake, and fire; then He spoke in a whisper to Elijah. God then sent Elijah to Damascus to anoint two kings, and to train Elisha, and anoint him to succeed Elijah as a prophet (1 Kings 19:1-21). Elijah was not finished with King Ahab and Jezebel! God sent him to confront Ahab's sin, and this time, to prophecy Ahab's death and the death of his family. Ahab and Jezebel had murdered a man named Naboth, and taken his land and vineyard (\"1 Kings:21:1-26\"). Elijah and Enoch share a unique honor in the Bible! God took them to heaven without experiencing death! Near the end of Elijah's ministry, he and Elisha were traveling together and stopped at the banks of the Jordan River. Elijah rolled up his mantle and struck the water. The river immediately divided, and Elijah and Elisha crossed on dry land. Suddenly, a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared. Elijah was lifted up in a whirlwind to heaven. Elijah's mantle fell to the ground and Elisha picked it up. Elisha then struck the Jordan River with Elijah's mantle and it divided so he could cross back over! The people were amazed and saw that the Spirit of Elijah rested on Elisha. The people believed God's Spirit had possibly taken Elijah to some mountain or valley. They sent men to search for him, but of course, he was not found. God had miraculously taken him to heaven! (\"Genesis:5:23-24\"). In the Book of Malachi, it is written: \"Look, I am sending you the prophet Elijah before the great and dreadful day of the Lord arrives. His preaching will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers. Otherwise I will come and strike the land with a curse\" (\"Malachi:4:5-6\"). Many scholars believe that the ministry of John the Baptist fulfilled this prophecy. Additionally, these verses are believed to represent Elijah having a role in the end-times, immediately before the second coming of Jesus (Matthew 11:13-15). On the Mount of Transfiguration, Elijah appears with Moses and speaks with Jesus (\"Matthew:17:1-13\"). Some believe that it is possible that Elijah and Moses are the two witnesses that appear in the end times according to Revelation 11:3-12.", "profile life lessons": "Obey God and don't fear man.", "profile key scripture": "\"As they were walking along and talking, suddenly a chariot of fire appeared, drawn by horses of fire. It drove between the two men, separating them, and Elijah was carried by a whirlwind into heaven.\""
"profile name": "Moses' Staff", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Moses protested God's call to act, saying, \"What if they won't believe me or listen to me?\" God then told him to throw his staff on the ground. It turned into a snake, and then it turned back into a staff (\"Exodus:4:3\"). This particular miracle could symbolize the changes taking place with the people of Israel. They once stood tall. And then Pharaoh made them lowly like a snake. God, through Moses, returns them to their upright status. When entering Pharaoh's court, Moses and Aaron approached Pharaoh and did what the Lord had commanded them. Aaron threw down his staff before Pharaoh and his officials. It became a serpent! Then Pharaoh called in his own wise men and sorcerers. These Egyptian magicians did the same thing with their magic. They threw down their staffs, which also became serpents! But then Aaron's staff swallowed up their staffs (\"Exodus:7:11-13\"). Moses uses his shepherd's staff throughout their journey as an outlet for God's power. It was also a symbol of his authority as their leader. For example, Moses later uses his staff to bring water from a rock (\"Numbers:20:11\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Throw it down on the ground,\" the Lord told him. So Moses threw down the staff, and it turned into a snake! Moses jumped back."
"profile name": "John", "profile description": "John survived years of persecution. After banishment to the island of Patmos, God visits him with visions of future restoration. God instructs him to write them down as the Book of Revelation.", "profile bible infoscan": "John was the son of Zebedee and the brother of James. The two brothers were nicknamed the \"Sons of Thunder\" by Jesus (Mark 3:17). Before Jesus called John to be a disciple, he was a fisherman in the family business on the Sea of Galilee (Matthew 4:18-22, Mark 1:16-20). He became one of Jesus' closest disciples. Jesus invited only John, James, and Peter to go with Him to heal Jairus' daughter, Jesus' transfiguration, and to stay with Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. (Mark 5:37; Luke 9:28-29; Matthew 26:36-38). James seemed to be fiercely loyal and protective of Jesus and the group of twelve disciples. John told Jesus that they had seen someone casting out demons in Jesus' name. They told the man to stop because he wasn't in their group. Jesus rebuked them for it! In another instance, Jesus wasn't welcomed in a Samaritan village because He was on His way to Jerusalem. \"When James and John saw this, they said to Jesus, \"Lord, should we call down fire from heaven to burn them up?\" But Jesus turned and rebuked them. (Luke 9:54-55). One time, the mother of James and John came to Jesus with her two sons. She asked Jesus to let her sons sit in places of honor on His right and left side in His kingdom. Jesus said they didn't know what they were asking because they would need to suffer like Him. He also said that only God could choose who sat with Jesus. The other disciples were upset when they heard James and John had made that request to Jesus. (Matthew 20:20-24; Mark 10:35-41). At times, John and his brother acted and spoke without thinking, similar to Peter. They, like Peter, were well meaning, loyal, and bold for Jesus. John's relationship with Jesus was so close that he was called \"the disciple Jesus loved\". At the crucifixion, Jesus handed Mary, His mother, to John. John took Mary into his home and cared for her as his own mother (John 19:26-27). After the disciples were filled with the Holy Spirit, Peter and John preached God's Word boldly and healed a lame man. They were thrown into jail and told to stop preaching about Jesus. The Jewish leaders were amazed at the boldness of Peter and John. After all, they were fishermen not educated men! The two men chose to obey God rather than men. They continued to preach boldly about Jesus! (Acts 3:1-8; Acts 4:1-31). John wrote the Gospel of John, \"so that you may continue to believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing in him you will have life by the power of his name\". (John 20:31). He also wrote 1 John, 2 John, 3 John, and Revelation. The book of Revelation was written when John was on the island of Patmos. This was a small island in the Aegean Sea just off the coast of Turkey (Revelation 1:9-11). John was exiled to this island during the time of the persecution of the early Christians. This was most likely during the reign of the Roman Emperor, Domitian (A.D. 81-96). John lived to an old age and died on the island.", "profile life lessons": "Obey God not man.", "profile key scripture": "A little farther up the shore he saw two other brothers, James and John, sitting in a boat with their father, Zebedee, repairing their nets. And he called them to come, too. They immediately followed him, leaving the boat and their father behind."
"profile name": "The Sinful Woman", "profile description": "This woman was aware of her sinfulness and her need for forgiveness. She came to the dinner, uninvited but well prepared to worship Jesus with her jar of expensive perfume. The woman's tears of repentance and thanksgiving were wiped from Jesus' feet with her own hair. Jesus saw her heart and rewarded her faith that day. Her sins were forgiven and the joy and peace that only Jesus can give filled her heart.", "profile bible infoscan": "This woman who showed up at Simon's house to anoint Jesus is not named in the Bible. We are told only that she is immoral or sinful. In Bible times, it was common for uninvited people to stand near the table and hope to receive some food or attention at a dinner banquet. This woman did not come to receive, she came to give! She brought a beautiful jar of expensive perfume with a specific purpose; to anoint Jesus! She knelt at Jesus' feet and wept as she anointed Him with both her perfume and her own tears! What a sight this must have been to all attending the dinner. To the arrogant and proper Pharisees, this must have been disgusting, offensive, and out of order! The word \"weeping\" used in (\"Luke:7:38\"), literally means \"to burst into tears.\" She was overcome with her love and gratitude for Jesus! She could not hold her emotions back - nor did she care. Her devotion and focus were squarely on Jesus; not the important guests reclining at the table. What would Jesus do? The Pharisees thought surely that Jesus would stop this inappropriate display of affection and rebuke her - a known sinner! Yet; Jesus did not. This confirmed Simon's thoughts that Jesus wasn't a true prophet; otherwise He would have separated Himself from the sinner! (\"Luke:7:44-50\") says, \"Then He turned to the woman and said to Simon, \"Look at this woman kneeling here. When I entered your home, you didn't offer Me water to wash the dust from My feet, but she has washed them with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You didn't greet Me with a kiss, but from the time I first came in, she has not stopped kissing My feet. You neglected the courtesy of olive oil to anoint My head, but she has anointed My feet with rare perfume. \"I tell you, her sins - and they are many - have been forgiven, so she has shown Me much love. But a person who is forgiven little shows only little love.\" Then Jesus said to the woman, \"Your sins are forgiven.\" The men at the table said among themselves, \"Who is this man, that He goes around forgiving sins?\" And Jesus said to the woman, \"Your faith has saved you; go in peace.\" This woman showed true love, thankfulness, and a repentant heart to Jesus. Contrary to Simon's belief; Jesus did see her sins; in fact, He said there were many! Instead of judgement and rejection, Jesus saw her faith and spoke forgiveness and peace to her! In (\"Psalms:51:17\"), after David received forgiveness from God for his horrible sins; he wrote: \"The sacrifice You desire is a broken spirit. You will not reject a broken and repentant heart, O God.\" Jesus looked at the woman's heart and received her genuine and pure worship. He instantly made her clean and whole again! In the Bible, she is referred to as the sinful woman; but more accurately, she is the forgiven woman! (\"Luke:7:36-50\")", "profile life lessons": "Faith in Jesus will save you.", "profile key scripture": "\"I tell you, her sins - and they are many - have been forgiven, so she has shown Me much love. But a person who is forgiven little shows only little love.\" Luke 7:47"
"profile name": "Naomi", "profile description": "Naomi and Ruth are among the best-loved characters in history and their story still resonates because of their love and devotion to each other. Naomi decides that it is time to return to her homeland of Israel and Ruth insists on returning with Naomi.", "profile bible infoscan": "The story of Naomi and Ruth is one of the most well-known stories in the Bible. The name Naomi means sweet, pleasant, or joyful. Naomi was married to Elimelech. She had two sons named Mahlon and Kilion. Naomi left Bethlehem in the land of Judah with her husband and two sons, in a time of famine. They traveled to the land of Moab where there was food. Soon Naomi's husband, Elimelech, died. Naomi's sons married two girls from Moab named Orpah and Ruth. Ten years later, Naomi's sons died. Now she was helpless with two widowed daughters-in-law in a foreign land. Naomi decided to go back to Bethlehem. She had heard that \"the Lord had visited his people in giving them bread.\" (\"Ruth:1:6\"). On the journey back, Naomi told Ruth and Orpah to return to Moab. She wanted them to be able to remarry and have a family while they were still young. She kissed them and asked the Lord to bless them for their kindness to her and her sons. Orpah kissed Naomi and returned to her home and to her gods in Moab. Ruth refused to leave her side. \"But Ruth replied, \"Don't ask me to leave you and turn back. Wherever you go, I will go; wherever you live, I will live. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. Wherever you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord punish me severely if I allow anything but death to separate us!\" Naomi must have been deeply touched and grateful to hear those words. When Naomi saw that Ruth was determined to go, she said nothing more. (\"Ruth:1:16\"). When the two women arrived in Bethlehem, the entire town was excited to see Naomi. They couldn't believe their eyes! She told the people to not call her Naomi anymore. She wanted to be called Mara which means bitter. She blamed God for causing her to suffer and for bringing tragedy upon her. (\"Ruth:1:19\"). Ruth takes it upon herself to provide for their family. With Naomi's blessing, Ruth went out to glean or gather barley in a field. The field belonged to her relative, Boaz! Boaz treated her with generosity and kindness. When Ruth returned home, she told Naomi about Boaz. Naomi was excited! (\"Ruth:2:21\"). \"Good!\" Naomi exclaimed. \"Do as he said, my daughter. Stay with his young women right through the whole harvest. You might be harassed in other fields, but you'll be safe with him.\" (\"Ruth:2:22\"). One night, Ruth followed Naomi's instructions. She revealed her desire for Boaz to become her kinsman-redeemer. Naomi sent her to talk to Boaz because Naomi was getting older. She wanted to know that Ruth would be provided for and protected by a husband. Boaz agreed to become their kinsman-redeemer. He purchased Naomi's property and married Ruth. God blessed them with a son named Obed to carry on Elimelech's family name! God restored Naomi's hope and joy to her! Bitter Mara was replaced by sweet and pleasant Naomi again! Ruth 4:16-17 says, Naomi took the baby and cuddled him to her breast. And she cared for him as if he were her own. The neighbor women said, \"Now at last Naomi has a son again!\" And they named him Obed. He became the father of Jesse and the grandfather of David.\" Through King David, Naomi is linked to Jesus! (\"Ruth:4:16\")", "profile life lessons": "Listen to the wisdom of godly people.", "profile key scripture": "\"The neighbor women said, \"Now at last Naomi has a son again!\" And they named him Obed. He became the father of Jesse and the grandfather of David.\""
"profile name": "Adam", "profile description": "Could you imagine being all alone with the entire beautiful world yours to explore? For a while, that was Adam's life. Adam was the very first human being, His name means \"human being\" or \"mankind.\"", "profile bible infoscan": "Adam was the very first human being, His name means \"human being\" or \"mankind.\" In \"Genesis:2:7\" , we read that God created Adam from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Adam was made in God's image and had God's life in him. The Lord planted a garden in Eden and put Adam there (\"Genesis:2:8\"). Adam named all the animals that God created (\"Genesis:2:20\"). Adam (and his wife Eve) disobeyed God and sin entered the world, separating us from God (\"Romans:5:12\"). However, there is good news! God sent his son Jesus Christ to pay the penalty for our sin so that by believing in Jesus we can have a restored relationship with God (\"2 Corinthians:5:19\").", "profile life lessons": "Temptation can be very attractive.", "profile key scripture": "So the Lord God banished them from the Garden of Eden, and he sent Adam out to cultivate the ground from which he had been made."
"profile name": "Great Fish", "profile description": "Jonah could not have imagined how God would protect him from drowning at the bottom of the sea! God arranged a great fish to swallow Jonah after he was thrown overboard. Jonah stayed in the belly of the fish for three days and nights and prayed earnestly to God. Upon God's command, the great fish spit Jonah out onto the beach.", "profile bible infoscan": "The great fish in the Bible story of Jonah is one of the more mysterious characters in the Bible. Most popular drawings of the great fish show it as a whale, but the Bible only describes it as a \"great fish\" that was \"arranged\" by God for Jonah (\"Jonah:1:17\"). The Old Testament Hebrew phrase used means \"great fish.\" The Greek word used in the book of Matthew is ketos which simply means \"sea creature or sea monster.\" Some people believe a person could live for three days within a whale (at least within the first stomach of a whale -- as long as they weren't crushed within it -- yikes!). Or, they believe it was possibly a great white shark, which has a slower metabolism, so their digestive juices may not deteriorate a human body too quickly, but these are only guesses at best. Regardless of what people do or don't believe, nothing is impossible for God and if it is recorded in the Bible, by faith we must take Him at His Word - literally! (\"Matthew:19:26\"). God is the creator of heaven and earth (Genesis 1:1). So, if He chose to create a fish for the sole purpose of \"capturing\" a wayward prophet (\"Jonah:1:17\") and helping change his heart (\"Jonah:2:9\"), then that is what He did! Jesus referenced Jonah's experience as a real event that actually happened - not a parable or an entertaining story. He compared what happened to Jonah to how He would spend three days and nights \"in the heart of the earth.\" (\"Matthew:12:40-41\"). This referred to His burial and resurrection to come. (\"Matthew:28:6\").", "profile life lessons": "God will go to great lengths to help us do the right thing.", "profile key scripture": "Now the Lord had arranged for a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was inside the fish for three days and three nights."
"profile name": "The Walls of Jericho", "profile description": "The monster stone walls surrounded the Canaanite city of Jericho. This made it virtually impossible to conquer the city; that is - without God's help! God instructed the Israelites to march around the city walls once a day for six days. On the seventh day, they marched seven times, blew their trumpets, and shouted. The walls instantly collapsed and God's people took the city!", "profile bible infoscan": "The story of Joshua's march around the city of Jericho is one of the most exciting and popular stories in the Bible. God directed Joshua and the Israelites to march around the walls for seven days. On the seventh day, the priests blew their horns. the Israelites then shouted and the seemingly indestructible walls suddenly collapsed. God gave the Israelites a supernatural victory. (\"Joshua:6:1-21\"). In Deuteronomy 9:1-3, God had warned the Israelites what was ahead of them as they entered the Promised Land. \"Listen, O Israel! Today you are about to cross the Jordan River to take over the land belonging to nations much greater and more powerful than you. They live in cities with walls that reach to the sky!\" That sounds like an accurate description of Jericho, doesn't it? But, God promised to cross over the Jordan ahead of them and bring His people victory! Jericho was the first obstacle the Israelites faced crossing over the Jordan River. Just how large were the walls around the city? Excavations at the site have revealed the stone wall around the city to be about 12-15 high. On top of this wall was a second, mud brick wall approximately six feet thick and around 20-26 feet tall. Imagine silently marching around the bottom of this fortress as the enemy stares down at you! The site of Jericho has undergone four major archaeological excavations. It has been shown that Jericho's mud brick walls crumpled in a heap at the base of the retaining wall. According to the Archaeological Study Bible, excavations point to an earthquake taking place. The fallen bricks formed a ramp that the Israelites used to enter the city. Archaeologists also have determined that a massive fire took place. They uncovered a layer of ash and charred debris roughly three feet thick. (\"Joshua:6:24\"). The time of the invasion of Jericho was also confirmed to be around harvest time. Full jars of recently harvested grain were found in the excavations. This showed that Israel's siege was short: seven days versus months. In a longer siege, the food supplies would be depleted. This also supports the Biblical account of the sudden, catastrophic wall collapse. Daily life was going on as usual until the moment the Israelites shouted and the wall collapsed. (Joshua 3:15; Joshua 6). Rahab's house was located within the fortifications of the city on the outer wall. The spies had promised to protect Rahab and her family inside her house. Amazingly, archaeologists found a section of the wall in the lower city that did not fall. Ruins were found during the German excavations (1907 to 1909) of a wall, possibly eight feet tall, with houses built against it. (\"Joshua:2:15\").", "profile life lessons": "Jesus breaks down the walls.", "profile key scripture": "When the people heard the sound of the rams' horns, they shouted as loud as they could. Suddenly, the walls of Jericho collapsed, and the Israelites charged straight into the town and captured it."
"profile name": "Stephen", "profile description": "Stephen was filled with the Holy Spirit and faith and he did amazing miracles among the people and many became believers. He was arrested on false charges and stood before the Jewish council. Stephen's face shined like an angel's face as He gazed into heaven. He enraged the Jewish leaders by calling them stubborn and deaf to the truth. They dragged him out of the city and stoned Stephen to death as he prayed for his them. Stephen became the first Christian martyr who gave his life for the Gospel.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Bible does not provide us with information about Stephen's birth or personal life. He was one of the first seven deacons of the early church. The deacons were men chosen to supervise the food distribution to the widows in the early church. Stephen was filled with the Holy Spirit and had the spiritual gifts of faith, wisdom, grace, and power. He began to preach the Gospel and performed amazing signs and wonders among the people. God's message spread and many became believers - even Jewish priests! (\"Acts:6:1-7\"). However, not all the Jewish people were persuaded by Stephen's message. Some Jewish men from a synagogue began to debate with Stephen. They were no match for the wisdom and power of the Holy Spirit within Stephen. The men then persuaded others to lie about Stephen, saying that he spoke against Moses and even God! Stephen was arrested and brought before the Jewish council called the Sanhedrin. As Steven stood before the council and listened to their false accusations, his face began to shine like an angel's face. The council could only stare at him. (\"Acts:6:8-15\") Stephen then responded to the charges against him with a detailed summary of Jewish history from Abraham and Moses to Jesus. Stephen spoke boldly and accused the Jewish leaders of being rebellious, stubborn, and deaf to the truth! The members of the council were enraged and shook their fists at him. Stephen then saw a vision of God in heaven, with Jesus at His right hand. When Stephen told his accusers the vision, they put their hands over their ears. Drowning out his voice with their shouts, they rushed at him. They dragged him out of the city and began to stone him. His accusers took off their coats and laid them at the feet of a young man named Saul (\"Acts:7:57-58\"). As they stoned him, Stephen prayed and asked God to receive his spirit. Acts 7:60 says, \"He fell to his knees, shouting, \"Lord, don't charge them with this sin!\" And with that, he died. Stephen did exactly as his Lord and Savior did as he suffered at the hands of his persecutors - he asked God to forgive them. (\"Acts:7:1-60\"); (\"Luke:23:34\"). Stephen was the first Christian martyr who gave his life for the gospel. His martyrdom introduced major persecution in Jerusalem (\"Acts:8:1-3\") and resulted in the Gospel being taken to Samaria and to the Greeks.", "profile life lessons": "Be faithful in your responsibilities.", "profile key scripture": "\"As they stoned him, Stephen prayed, 'Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.' He fell to his knees, shouting, 'Lord, don't charge them with this sin!' And with that, he died.\""
"profile name": "Scribe", "profile description": "The scribe was an expert in the Law of Moses. He came to Jesus and asked questions to test Him. He hoped that Jesus would justify or validate his attitude and actions toward others he didn't consider to be his neighbors. Through Jesus' parable, the scribe was shocked to learn that everyone was his neighbor, even his enemies - the Samaritans! Jesus told the scribe to go and show mercy to others. ", "profile bible infoscan": "A scribe is someone who writes and records important documents, events, records, and decisions. In the Old Testament, scribes were wise men who often counseled and advised kings. They held important positions of authority and influence in the government. They prepared and issued decrees, contracts, and letters by the king's authority. These men were also called court secretaries or historians. (\"2 Samuel:8:17\" ; \"1 Chronicles:18:16\"). A man named Baruch was a scribe that was a companion to the prophet Jeremiah. \"So Jeremiah sent for Baruch son of Neriah, and as Jeremiah dictated all the prophecies that the Lord had given him, Baruch wrote them on a scroll.\" (\"Jeremiah:36:4\"). A scribe named Ezra worked alongside Nehemiah as the walls of Jerusalem were rebuilt. (\"Ezra:7:6\"). The scribes became experts in copying, interpreting, and preserving the law. Can you imagine a world without computers, copiers, and printers? The scribes did all their work without them! This is why a scribe's work was so important. We can thank the Jewish scribes for preserving the Old Testament section of our Bibles. Many of the scribes in the New Testament were Pharisees. They were also called lawyers, and experts or teachers of the Law. Yet, the scribes began to go beyond copying and interpreting Scripture. They began to add manmade traditions to God's Law. Some of these traditions were even considered to be more important than the Law itself! Instead of preserving God's Word, their traditions actually nullified or canceled it out! Jesus said, \"And so you cancel the word of God in order to hand down your own tradition. And this is only one example among many others.\" (\"Mark:7:13\"). The scribes were hypocrites at heart. They were more interested in appearing good to men than pleasing God. Outward holiness replaced a life of true inward purity and godliness. This led to many confrontations between Jesus and the religious leaders. They thought Jesus showed disrespect for their customs and traditions. They closely watched Jesus for things that were against the religious customs. As an example, when Jesus healed a crippled man on the Sabbath, He told the man to pick up his mat and walk. Carrying a mat was considered work and so it was against their religious customs! (\"John:5:15\"). Jesus began His famous Sermon on the Mount by calling out the Pharisees and scribes as hypocrites. \"But I warn you--unless your righteousness is better than the righteousness of the teachers of religious law and the Pharisees, you will never enter the Kingdom of Heaven!\" (\"Matthew:5:20\"). Much of Jesus' sermon that day centered on the teaching of the religious leaders. He pointed out how it conflicted with the spirit and intent of God's Word. (Matthew 5:21-48). In \"Matthew:23:36\" , Jesus condemned the scribes and Pharisees for their hypocrisy. He pronounced \"seven woes\" or sorrows to them for their false teaching. He said they didn't even obey what they told others to do! Wherever Jesus traveled, the religious leaders tried to trick and trap Him. They wanted to discredit Him. This was the motive behind the scribe's questions when he tested Jesus in Luke 10:25-19. Jesus never fell for their traps. As a result, His popularity grew even greater. The people saw a difference between Jesus and the scribes, Pharisees and Sadducees. Jesus spoke the truth and lived it as well. He was and is the Light of the world. \"Jesus spoke to the people once more and said, \"I am the light of the world. If you follow me, you won't have to walk in darkness, because you will have the light that leads to life.\" (\"John:8:12\"). Another difference that attracted people to Jesus was that Jesus taught with real authority! The scribes always quoted a previous great legal authority for their decisions and teaching. Jesus taught with his own personal authority given by God the Father. He did not need to quote any so called experts! This angered Jewish religious leaders. (\"Mark:1:22\"). Not all Scribes opposed Jesus and His followers; A Pharisee named Gamaliel was one. (\"Acts:5:34\"). Eventually the religious leaders, including the scribes, had enough of Jesus and His followers. They plotted to kill Him and their actions led to His arrest and crucifixion. (\"Luke:19:47\").", "profile life lessons": "Love your neighbor as yourself.", "profile key scripture": "Now which of these three would you say was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by bandits?\" Jesus asked. The man replied, \"The one who showed him mercy.\""
"profile name": "Moneychangers", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The moneychangers were bankers who exchanged one nation's currency (money) or one size of coin for another. They usually charged an extremely high fee for their services. Some moneychangers worked in the Temple area because the money given to the Temple had to be in the Tyrian silver coin, a certain type of currency. Jesus cleansed or cleared the Temple of the dishonest moneychangers on two different occasions. Once, at the beginning of His ministry (\"John:2:13-16\"), He used a whip He made from some ropes to chase away the merchants selling cattle, sheep, and doves for sacrifices, as well as the dealers at tables exchanging foreign money. At the end of His ministry (\"Matthew:21:12-13\"), Jesus cleared the Temple a second time. He didn't want the Temple to be a marketplace, a place of buying, selling, and cheating. He wanted it to be a place of prayer, a place to worship God.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"He said to them, 'The Scriptures declare, 'My Temple will be called a house of prayer,' but you have turned it into a den of thieves!\""
"profile name": "Gideon", "profile description": "The name Gideon in the Hebrew means \"Destroyer\" or \"Mighty warrior\" - but that was not the way this biblical character saw himself. But with God at his side, Gideon carries off a masterful attack and defeats the Midianites.", "profile bible infoscan": "The name Gideon in the Hebrew means \"mighty warrior\" - yet, this was not an accurate description of Gideon early on. Where was Gideon when the angel of the Lord came to call him to rescue the Israelites from their enemies? Was Gideon sharpening his skills with his bow or spear? No; he was threshing wheat on the floor of the winepress as he hid from the Midianites. We need to give Gideon some slack here; for seven years the Midianites and their allies continually destroyed the Israelites' crops and took all of their animals. This was the result of God turning the Israelites over to the Midianites to punish them for their wicked ways. Near starvation, the Israelites cried out to God. The angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon and told him that the Lord was with him. (\"Judges:6:1-11\"). Gideon had a hard time believing it since they had been in captivity for years and had not experienced God's power and interaction. \"Sir,\" Gideon replied, \"if the Lord is with us, why has all this happened to us? And where are all the miracles our ancestors told us about? Didn't they say, 'The Lord brought us up out of Egypt'? But now the Lord has abandoned us and handed us over to the Midianites.\" (\"Judges:6:13\") \"Then the Lord turned to him and said, \"Go with the strength you have, and rescue Israel from the Midianites. I am sending you!\" (\"Judges:6:14\"). Gideon still objected saying that his clan was the weakest in Manasseh, and he was the least in his family (\"Judges:6:15\"). The Lord told him that He would be with him and Gideon would destroy the Midianites. (\"Judges:6:16\"). Gideon asked for a sign that the Lord was actually speaking to him and the angel honored his request and then disappeared. (\"Judges:6:17-26\"). Gideon obeyed God and tore down his father's altar to Baal and the Asherah pole used for worship. He then built an altar to The Lord there. This made the people angry and demanded that Gideon be put to death. God protected Gideon; his father intervened on his behalf to silence the angry mob. From that time they called him Jerub-baal, which means \"Let Baal defend himself,\" because Gideon broke down Baal's altar. (\"Judges:6:25-32\"). As the enemy's armies camped near the Israelites, preparing to attack, The Spirit of the Lord clothed Gideon with power. Gideon blew a ram's horn calling the warriors from the tribes of Israel to assemble for battle. Gideon still needed more proof from God that He was calling him to rescue His people. Gideon laid out a test to God. \"Then Gideon said to God, \"If you are truly going to use me to rescue Israel as you promised, prove it to me in this way. I will put a wool fleece on the threshing floor tonight. If the fleece is wet with dew in the morning but the ground is dry, then I will know that you are going to help me rescue Israel as you promised.\" And that is just what happened. When Gideon got up early the next morning, he squeezed the fleece and wrung out a whole bowlful of water. Then Gideon said to God, \"Please don't be angry with me, but let me make one more request. Let me use the fleece for one more test. This time let the fleece remain dry while the ground around it is wet with dew.\" So that night God did as Gideon asked. The fleece was dry in the morning, but the ground was covered with dew. (\"Judges:6:36-40\"). How kind and patient God was with Gideon! Gideon's army consisted of 32,000 warriors and God told Gideon that his army was too large. God said that with an army this size, they could boast that they defeated the enemy by their own strength instead of giving credit to God. God told Gideon that any man who was timid or afraid could go home. 22,000 men went home leaving only 10,000 with Gideon. Then God told Gideon to perform another test to reduce the army even more! 9700 men were eliminated this time, leaving Gideon only 300 men! (\"Judges:7:1-7\"). After this, God told Gideon to get up and go. However, if he was still afraid to attack the enemy, he could take Purah, his servant, and go to the enemy camp. Once there, God would encourage him and make him eager to attack. God caused Gideon to hear a dream and interpretation by some enemy soldiers. After hearing the soldiers speak, he was finally convinced that God was giving him the victory! Gideon bowed to worship God and then ran to prepare his 300 troops. Gideon divided the men into three groups of 100 each. He gave them each a ram's horn, a clay jar and a torch. \"It was just after midnight, after the changing of the guard, when Gideon and the 100 men with him reached the edge of the Midianite camp. Suddenly, they blew the ram's' horns and broke their clay jars. Then all three groups blew their horns and broke their jars. They held the blazing torches in their left hands and the horns in their right hands, and they all shouted, \"A sword for the Lord and for Gideon!\" Each man stood at his position around the camp and watched as all the Midianites rushed around in a panic, shouting as they ran to escape. When the 300 Israelites blew their rams' horns, the Lord caused the warriors in the camp to fight against each other with their swords. Those who were not killed fled to places as far away as Beth-shittah near Zererah and to the border of Abel-meholah near Tabbath.\" (\"Judges:7:19-22\"). Gideon and his men then chased the men who escaped until they captured or killed them. (\"Judges:7:23\"). After Gideon returned from battle, the people tried to make him their ruler. Gideon refused and told them that the Lord would rule over them. (\"Judges:8:22-23\"). Gideon then did something that was very out of character for him. He requested that each of the Israelites give him a gold earring from the plunder of the enemy. With the jewelry, Gideon made a sacred ephod. The Israelites soon began to worship it and it became a trap for Gideon and his family. Throughout the rest of Gideon's lifetime - about forty years - there was peace in the land. Gideon had 70 sons by many wives. He was buried in the grave of his father Joash in Ophrah. As soon as Gideon died, the Israelites began to worship Baal again. Judges 8: 34-35 says, \"They forgot the Lord their God, who had rescued them from all their enemies surrounding them. Nor did they show any loyalty to the family of Jerub-baal (that is, Gideon), despite all the good he had done for Israel.\" Gideon is named in the book of Hebrews as an example of a man of faith (\"Hebrews:11:32\").", "profile life lessons": "God uses those who are weak in the eyes of the world to show Himself strong.", "profile key scripture": "The angel of the Lord appeared to him and said, \"Mighty hero, the Lord is with you!\""
"profile name": "Haman", "profile description": "Haman was elevated and idolized by everyone accept Mordecai. He refused to bow before him. This enraged Haman so much that he looked for a way to destroy all Jews. In the end, Haman's plot backfired.", "profile bible infoscan": "Haman was the son of Hammedatha. He was most likely a descendent of the Amalekite king named Agag. The Amalekites were enemies of the Jewish people for many years. God ordered King Saul to completely destroy the Amalekites hundreds of years before. Saul disobeyed God and spared the king, as well as many animals and objects. Saul was then rejected by God as king. (1 Samuel 15). The disobedience of Saul then is tied to Haman and his evil plot to execute the Jews. Haman is the real life villain in the story of Esther. He was one of the highest ranking officials of the Persian Empire under King Xerxes in the 5th Century BC. Haman hated Mordecai because of his refusal to bow and show respect. Encouraged by his wife named Zeresh, Haman's came up with a plan to kill Mordecai and the entire Jewish population in Persia! Haman was able to convince the king to make a decree to put his plan in place. This meant all the Jews would be killed on a single day! (\"Esther:3:1-15\"). One night the king could not sleep. He had an attendant read a book to him about the history of his reign. The king discovered that Mordecai had saved his life by reporting the plot to assassinate him. When the king learned that Mordecai was never rewarded, he asked Haman's advice about how he should honor a person that pleased the king. Haman believed that the king was referring to him, not Mordecai his enemy! Haman told the king to appoint one of his most trusted officials to dress the honored man in the king's royal robes. Then have the official parade him around town on the king's horse with the royal emblem on it. And, as he led the honored man around, he would shout, \"This is what the king does for someone he wished to honor.\" Haman was shocked when the king told him to go do all he suggested for Mordecai! After leading Mordecai around the city, Haman returned home humiliated and depressed. This was the beginning of the end for Haman. Even those who were close to Haman advised him that he would never succeed against Mordecai - in fact, it could even be fatal. They had no idea how quickly their words would come to pass! (\"Esther:6:1-14\"). Haman boasted about his private invitation to Queen Esther's banquets for only him and the king. He was horrified to find out the real reason his presence was requested. Queen Esther revealed that she was a Jew and Haman's plot would annihilate her and her people! The king was enraged and ordered Haman hanged from the very gallows he had just built to execute Mordecai! (\"Esther:7:1-10\"). That same day, King Xerxes gave the property of Haman to Queen Esther. Esther then revealed to the king that she was related to Mordecai. \"The king took off his signet ring - which he had taken back from Haman - and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther appointed Mordecai to be in charge of Haman's property.\" (\"Esther:8:2\"). By order of the king, the Jews were able to defend themselves against their enemies on the day Haman had chosen to destroy them. The Jews united and defeated their enemies. Haman's ten sons were killed and hanged on the same gallows their father was executed. (\"Esther:8:7-17\"). The Jewish holiday of Purim tells the story of the deliverance of the Jews and the defeat of Haman. The holiday is still celebrated today with the entire book of Esther read in synagogues around the world. People use noisemakers as they cheer at the sound of Mordecai's name and boo and hiss at the mention of Haman.", "profile life lessons": "Evil can arise in your lives from areas of disobedience in your lives, so we need to make sure we are obedient in all things.", "profile key scripture": "This wicked Haman is our adversary and our enemy. Haman grew pale with fright before the king and queen."
"profile name": "Joseph's Brothers", "profile description": "How would you like to have siblings like these? Joseph had ten older half-brothers who were jealous of Joseph and hated him. So much so they plotted to kill him! Instead, they sold Joseph to some Midianite traders traveling to Egypt. After many years, the brothers traveled to Egypt to buy grain during the famine. They were stunned to discover Joseph alive and in charge! Joseph not only was handed out grain; but also forgiveness, love, and mercy! The entire family was then reunited to live in Egpyt together - all in God's plan!", "profile bible infoscan": "The ten older brothers were actually half-brothers to Joseph and Benjamin. \"Genesis:35:23-26\" lists all twelve of Jacob's sons and their mother's names. \"These are the names of the twelve sons of Jacob:The sons of Leah were Reuben (Jacob's oldest son), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun. The sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin. The sons of Bilhah, Rachel's servant, were Dan and Naphtali. The sons of Zilpah, Leah's servant, were Gad and Asher. The ten older brothers were jealous of Jacob's love for Joseph. Jacob loved Joseph so much that he made Joseph a robe of many colors. This caused the brothers to hate Joseph. After Joseph shared two prophetic dreams God had given him, the brothers hated grew even stronger. In the dreams, Joseph's brothers and his parents bowed down to him. This was too much for the brother's to take! All but Reuben, the oldest, plotted to kill their younger brother one day as Joseph visited them while they tended sheep. Reuben stepped in and changed the plan to throw Joseph into a pit. He secretly planned to rescue Joseph later. Before he could do that, some Midianite traders came by on their way to Egypt. The brothers sold Joseph to them for 20 pieces of silver. To cover up their wicked crime, the brothers dipped Joseph's coat in the blood of a goat and presented the robe to their father. This act of deception caused their father to believe that a wild animal had attacked and killed Joseph. Jacob grieved for a very long time and could not be consoled by his sons. The Midianite traders sold Joseph as a slave to Potiphar, a high ranking Egyptian officer under Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. God's hand was upon Joseph and His plan and purpose for Joseph continued to unfold over several years. Joseph rose to power in Egypt and became second in command to Pharaoh himself! Joseph was put in charge of distributing grain in Egypt which had been stored in preparation for seven years of famine. (\"Genesis:37:2-36\") Little did the brothers know they were buying grain from none other than Joseph, the one they had sold into slavery. He was alive, doing well, and in charge! Joseph recognized them, but his brothers had no clue. Joseph tested his brothers in different ways to determine if they had changed since he had last seen them - from the bottom of a pit! After the brothers brought Benjamin from Canaan, Joseph couldn't stand it any longer. He revealed his identity to his stunned and terrified brothers! Instead of punishing them, Joseph forgave them and told them not to blame themselves. It was God, not them, who had sent him to Egypt. God had orchestrated everything to save many lives! (\"Genesis:45:3-8\"). Jacob reunited with Joseph and all of his sons. Jacob's sons became the leaders of the 12 tribes of Israel.", "profile life lessons": "Jealousy is dangerous.", "profile key scripture": "\"Come on, let's kill him and throw him into one of these cisterns. We can tell our father, 'A wild animal has eaten him.' Then we'll see what becomes of his dreams!\""
"profile name": "Samuel", "profile description": "My infoscan is indexing the story of an important man named SAMUEL. He was born in Ramah, in the hill country of Ephraim. Samuel served as a judge and prophet for Israel. He was very wise and heard from the Lord. God instructed Samuel to anoint Saul as king of Israel. Later, when Saul disobeyed God, God led Samuel to anoint David, so David would then replace Saul as the King of Israel. That's when the story really gets exciting.", "profile bible infoscan": "Samuel was born in Ramah, in the hill country of Ephraim to Hannah and Elkanah. Samuel's mother was unable to bear children for many years and was very sad. She made a vow to the Lord; if God gave her a son, she would give him back to the Lord for his lifetime. \"The Lord remembered her prayer. \"And in due time she gave birth to a son. She named him Samuel, for she said, \"I asked the LORD for him.\" (\"1 Samuel:1:20\") When Samuel was a little older, Hannah took him to the Tabernacle in Shiloh. She said to Eli the priest: \"Now I am giving him to the Lord, and he will belong to the Lord his whole life.\" And they worshiped the Lord there.\" (\"1 Samuel:1:28\"). Even though Samuel was a small boy, he wore a garment like Eli the priest and served him faithfully in the Tabernacle. Samuel grew up in the presence and the favor of the Lord (\"1 Samuel:2:18\"). One night as Samuel near Ark of God in the Tabernacle, The Lord called out Samuel's name. Samuel replied, \"Yes, What is it?\" Then he got up and ran to Eli thinking that he had called Samuel. Eli told Samuel to go back to bed because he had not called him. This happened a second time. This happened a third time. Eli then realized it was the Lord calling Samuel. He told Samuel to go back to bed and is someone called again, answer, \"Speak, Lord your servant is listening.'' When God called again, Samuel answered as Eli had instructed. The Lord told Samuel that He was going to do a shocking thing in Israel and judgement was about to come to Eli's family for his two son's disobedience. Eli also would be judged for not disciplining them. The next day Eli asked Samuel what God said to him. Samuel was afraid to speak but Eli warned him that he must tell Eli every word! Samuel told Eli everything. Eli knew that the words were true (\"1 Samuel:3:1-18\"). \"Samuel grew up, the Lord was with him, and everything Samuel said proved to be reliable. And all Israel, from Dan in the north to Beersheba in the south, knew that Samuel was confirmed as a prophet of the Lord. The Lord continued to appear at Shiloh and gave messages to Samuel there at the Tabernacle.\" (\"1 Samuel:3:19-21\") Israel was turned over to the Philistines for 20 years because they chose to worship idols. The Ark of the Lord was also taken by the Philistines. Samuel called the people to return to the Lord and to get rid of their idols. The people listened to Samuel, turned back to God, and worshiped Him only (\"1 Samuel:7:1-4\"). Samuel then gathered everyone at Mizpah. He prayed for the people and they fasted from food and confessed their sin to God. The Philistines gathered to attack the Israelites. Samuel prayed and offered a sacrifice to the Lord. The Lord then spoke with a mighty voice of thunder from heaven. This confused the Philistines and the Israelites soundly defeated them. Samuel placed a large stone between the towns of Mizpah and Jeshanah. He named the place Ebenezer, which means \"the stone of help\", to remember how God helped them there. For the rest of Samuel's life, the Lord's powerful hand was raised against the Philistines. Israel had peace with the Philistines and the Ammonites for some time. Samuel continued to serve as Israel's judge until his death. Each year he traveled between Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah to judge the people of Israel. He would then return to his home at Ramah, and judge the people there. Samuel built an altar to the Lord at Ramah (\"1 Samuel:7:5\"). Samuel appointed his sons, Joel and Abijah, to be judges over Israel. They were not like Samuel. They were corrupt and accepted bribes. The Israelites spoke to Samuel about his wicked sons. They told Samuel that they wanted a king to judge them like the other nations. God told Samuel, \"Do everything they say to you,\" the LORD replied, \"for it is me they are rejecting, not you. They don't want me to be their king any longer.\" Samuel warned the people about the way a king would rule over them. The people refused to listen. God told Samuel He had chosen Saul to be Israel's first king. \"Then Samuel took a flask of olive oil and poured it over Saul's head. He kissed Saul and said, \"I am doing this because the Lord has appointed you to be the ruler over Israel, his special possession.\" (\"1 Samuel:9:17\"). Samuel also anointed Saul as Israel's king in front of all the tribes of Israel at Mizpah (\"1 Samuel:10:17\"). Samuel grew old and gave a farewell address to Israel. He called the people to continue to obey and worship only God. Samuel called down thunder and rain from heaven to show the power and might of God that day. The people were terrified. Samuel again called them to remain faithful to God (\"1 Samuel:12\"). After Saul was king for some time, Samuel was forced to rebuke Saul for his rebellion and disobedience. Eventually, Samuel brought the news to Saul that God had rejected him as king! (\"1 Samuel:13:8\"). After Samuel had mourned for Saul, God told Samuel to go to Bethlehem and anoint David as King of Israel in Saul's place. The Spirit of God came powerfully upon David. Samuel returned to his home in Ramah (\"1 Samuel:16:1\"). \"Now Samuel died, and all Israel gathered for his funeral. They buried him at his house in Ramah.\" (\"1 Samuel:25:1\").", "profile life lessons": "Listen to God and obey Him -- always.", "profile key scripture": "\"Suddenly the Lord called out, \"Samuel!\""
"profile name": "Herod Antipas", "profile description": "John challenged Herod, King of Judea, to repent of the sin he committed by marrying his brother's wife, Herodias. In response, Herod Antipas had John the Baptist arrested and put in prison.", "profile bible infoscan": "Herod Antipas' father was Herod the Great or Herod the tetrarch (\"Matthew:14:1\" ; \"Luke:3:1\"). He was called tetrarch because he divided his kingdom into four parts and gave his sons each a part to rule. Herod Antipas was given Galilee to govern. Antipas divorced his first wife to marry his brother Phillip's wife named Herodias. John the Baptist began a ministry of preaching and baptism by the Jordan River which was part of Antipas' territory of Perea. (\"Matthew:3:1\"). Herod was rebuked by John the Baptist for his marriage to Herodias. John said it was unlawful according to God's law. Herod wanted to kill John for this but was afraid of a riot. (\"Matthew:14:5\"). Herod sent soldiers to arrest and imprison John as a favor to Herodias. She held a grudge against John and wanted to kill him. But, without Herod's approval, she was powerless because Herod respected John. Knowing that he was a good and holy man, Herod protected him. Herod was disturbed whenever he talked with John, but even so, he liked to listen to him. (\"Mark:6:17-20\"). Eventually though, Herod ended up being tricked into ordering John's death. Herod promised Salome, Herodias' daughter, any request she wanted as a result of dancing for guests at his birthday banquet. She asked her mother what she should request. Her mother told her to ask for the head of John the Baptist! So the girl hurried back to the king and told him, \"I want the head of John the Baptist!\" (\"Mark:6:21-28\"). Herod Antipas regretted what he had said, but because of the vows he had made in front of his guests, he couldn't refuse her. So, he sent an executioner to the prison to cut off John's head and bring it to him. The soldier beheaded John in the prison, brought his head on a tray, and gave it to the girl, who took it to her mother. (\"Matthew:14:9-11\"). When Antipas heard of Jesus' miracles, he feared that the Baptizer had been raised from the dead. (\"Mark:6:14-16\"). A group of Pharisees warned Jesus that Antipas was plotting his death. Jesus called Antipas a fox. Jesus declared that He would continue to cast out demons and heal people until His purpose was accomplished. (Luke 13:31-33). Herod Antipas played a part in Jesus' trial. He was delighted to see Jesus hoping that Jesus would perform a miracle for him to see. Jesus performed no miracles and refused to answer any of Herod's questions. Disappointed, Herod and his soldiers mocked and ridiculed Jesus before sending Him back to Pilate. Herod and Pilate both wanted to release Jesus because they found Him innocent. (\"Luke:23:6-16\"). Josephus states that In 39 AD, Antipas was accused by his nephew Agrippa I of conspiracy against the new Roman emperor Caligula, who sent Antipas and Herodias into exile in Gaul.", "profile life lessons": "You must live your life according to the truth of God's Word and not be swayed by temptation.", "profile key scripture": "Then the king deeply regretted what he had said, but because of the vows he had made in front of his guests, he couldn't refuse her."
"profile name": "Jews in Exile", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "To be exiled is to be forced to leave you own country to live in a foreign land. In the Jews case, they were forced to leave the Promised Land to live in foreign countries. \"Esther:2:5-7\" tells about the exile of Esther and Mordecai's families. \"At that time there was a Jewish man in the fortress of Susa whose name was Mordecai son of Jair. He was from the tribe of Benjamin and was a descendant of Kish and Shimei. His family] had been among those who, with King Jehoiachin of Judah, had been exiled from Jerusalem to Babylon by King Nebuchadnezzar. This man had a very beautiful and lovely young cousin, Hadassah, who was also called Esther. When her father and mother died, Mordecai adopted her into his family and raised her as his own daughter.\" The first exile was of the Israelites who lived in the northern kingdom located in Samaria. This was at the hand of the Assyrians. The king did evil in God's sight and refused to repent. The Israelites were exiled to Assyria. (\"2 Kings:15:27-31\"). Years later, Assyria attacked Israel again and Samaria fell. The people once again were exiled to Assyria. What was the reason this time? God's people once again chose to follow the practices of the pagan nations and worshiped idols. (\"2 Kings:17\"). \"Yes, they worshiped idols, despite the Lord's specific and repeated warnings. Again and again the Lord had sent His prophets and seers to warn both Israel and Judah: \"Turn from all your evil ways. Obey My commands and decrees - the entire law that I commanded your ancestors to obey, and that I gave you through My servants the prophets. But the Israelites would not listen. They were as stubborn as their ancestors who had refused to believe in the Lord their God.\" (\"2 Kings:17:12-14\"). How tragic! The Lord swept His people from His presence - just as He had warned! (\"2 Kings:17:23\") The prophet Jeremiah warned that God would use Nebuchadnezzar, the Babylonian king, as an instrument of judgment upon the southern kingdom of Judah for their idolatry and rebellion. (Jeremiah 27). True to God's Word, Nebuchadnezzar conquered Jerusalem and destroyed the city. (2 Kings 24-25; Jeremiah 52). According to Scripture, the time of exile would last for 70 years. God would then gather His people and rescue them. \"This is what the Lord says: \"You will be in Babylon for seventy years. But then I will come and do for you all the good things I have promised, and I will bring you home again. For I know the plans I have for you,\" says the Lord. \"They are plans for good and not for disaster, to give you a future and a hope. In those days when you pray, I will listen. If you look for Me wholeheartedly, you will find Me. I will be found by you,\" says the Lord. \"I will end your captivity and restore your fortunes. I will gather you out of the nations where I sent you and will bring you home again to your own land.\" (\"Jeremiah:29:10-14\") After the seventy years, the Jewish people would be allowed to return to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem. This was fulfilled just as God said. \"In the first year of King Cyrus of Persia, the Lord fulfilled the prophecy He had given through Jeremiah.\" (\"Ezra:1:1\") The prophet Isaiah called for the Jews to return to their homeland. \"Yet even now, be free from your captivity! Leave Babylon and the Babylonians. Sing out this message! Shout it to the ends of the earth! The LORD has redeemed his servants, the people of Israel.\" (\"Isaiah:48:20\"). The books of Ezra and Nehemiah tell us there were three separate returns of the Jews from Babylon. In 538 B.C. the temple is rebuilt under the leader Zerubbabel and Joshua. A detailed list of the exiles who returned is found in chapter 2. (Ezra 2-6). Many years later Ezra arrived in Jerusalem during the reign of King Xerxes in Persia. \"Ezra arrived in Jerusalem in August of that year. He had arranged to leave Babylon on April 8, the first day of the new year, and he arrived at Jerusalem on August 4, for the gracious hand of his God was on him. This was because Ezra had determined to study and obey the Law of the Lord and to teach those decrees and regulations to the people of Israel.\" (\"Ezra:7:8-10\"). A detailed list of the exiles that returned with Ezra is found in chapter 8. (Ezra 7-8). Several years later, Nehemiah traveled to Jerusalem to rebuild the walls and the city. He worked alongside Ezra the priest. (Nehemiah 1-13). Queen Esther hid her Jewish nationality until the proper time to help the Jews in exile. Because of God's favor, the king allowed Mordecai and Esther to craft a new decree which he sealed with his signet ring. The decree gave authority to the Jews in exile throughout the Persian Empire to protect themselves from their enemies. (Esther 8).", "profile life lessons": "God chose the Jews to be His chosen people forever.", "profile key scripture": "...and in this way all Israel will be saved. As it is written: \"The deliverer will come from Zion; he will turn godlessness away from Jacob.\""
"profile name": "Gabriel", "profile description": "Whoa. Gabriel is an awesome angel. His name means \"strong man of God\" or \"God is my warrior.\" He is one of only two angels named in the Bible. The other is Michael. Gabriel appears in both the Old and New Testaments, and he is mentioned four times in the Bible; each time he brings an amazing message from God.", "profile bible infoscan": "Gabriel is an awesome angel. His name means \"strong man of God\" or \"God is my warrior.\" He is one of only two angels named in the Bible. The other is Michael. Gabriel appears in both the Old and New Testaments. He is mentioned four times in the Bible; each time, he brings an amazing message from God. In the Old Testament, Gabriel appears to Daniel. (Daniel 8:15-16; Daniel 9:21-22). He explains the meaning of his visions and gives him insight and understanding. Gabriel told Daniel that his request was heard in heaven from the first day he began to pray. He came to answer Daniel's prayer but was blocked by the spirit prince of the kingdom of Persia for 21 days! Michael, one of God's archangels, came to help Daniel. This gives us an idea of the invisible spiritual warfare that takes place in the heavens when we pray! Our prayers are powerful; they are heard in heaven and the enemy takes notice! Daniel said that Gabriel looks like a man (Daniel 10:18). He lives in heaven, in the \"very presence of God\" (Luke 1:19). Gabriel's nature reflects the nature of God. For example, he wakes Daniel gently with a touch and helps him to his feet (\"Daniel:8:18\"). He reassures Daniel that God loves him (\"Daniel:9:23\") and encourages him not to be afraid - to have peace and not fear (Daniel 10:19). In the New Testament, Gabriel announces the birth of a son to Zechariah (\"Luke:1:19\") and a son to Mary (Luke 1:28). He always speaks the truth (\"Luke:1:20\"). The common reaction of people seeing Gabriel is fear. Daniel looked down at the ground, unable to say a word. He was filled with anguish and became very weak. (Daniel 10:15-16). Luke 1:12 says, \"Zechariah was shaken and overwhelmed with fear when he saw him.\" Mary was confused and disturbed when Gabriel appeared to her and announced Jesus' birth. (\"Luke:1:29\"). Gabriel reassured Daniel, Mary and Zechariah by saying, \"Don't be afraid\" (Daniel 10:19; Luke 1:13, Luke 2:10).", "profile life lessons": "Live close to God so that you can reflect God's nature.", "profile key scripture": "\"Then the angel said, 'I am Gabriel! I stand in the very presence of God. It was He who sent me to bring you this good news!'\""
"profile name": "Jesus, Lamb of God", "profile description": "John writes scenes from the final battle between good and evil. Satan feels that he's winning, but Jesus, our Savior and the Lamb of God, flies down from heaven to vanquish evil!", "profile bible infoscan": "Hearing Jesus compared to a lamb is surprising. At first glance, a lamb seems weak, and we know that Jesus is strong. When Jesus went to John to be baptized, John said, \"Look! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!\" (\"John:1:29\"). This name had meaning for the hearers as they were Jews who sacrificed lambs as part of their worship. This practice began on the night before their escape from Egypt in the time of Moses. The night before they left, Moses told the Jews to slaughter a \"perfect\" lamb and spread the blood on the doorposts of their homes. When the angel of death passed over (the tenth plague), every firstborn died except those in the homes with blood on the doorposts. In the prophetic book of Isaiah, Jesus is portrayed as the suffering servant who \"was led like a lamb to the slaughter\" and \"as a sheep is silent before the shearers, did not open his mouth\" (\"Isaiah:53:7\"). The image of Jesus being the Lamb is continued in the Book of Revelation. In a vision, John saw \"a Lamb that looked as if it had been slaughtered\" step forward and take the scroll from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne (\"Revelation:5:6-7\"). The Lamb was then worshiped by the four living beasts and the twenty-four elders in the vision (\"Revelation:5:14\"). The Lamb broke the seven seals of judgment on the scroll (\"Revelation:6:0\" and the crowd shouted, \"Salvation comes from our God who sits on the throne and from the Lamb\" (\"Revelation:7:10\"). In other visions, the Lamb is described as standing on Mount Zion (\"Revelation:14:1\"), being victorious in war (\"Revelation:17:14\"), having a wedding feast (\"Revelation:19:7\"), having a bride (the Church) and twelve apostles (\"Revelation:21:9\"), being the temple with the Lord God Almighty, being the light of the city, and having a Book of Life in which names are written (\"Revelation:21:22-26\").", "profile life lessons": "Jesus died for your sin.", "profile key scripture": "\"Salvation comes from our God who sits on the throne and from the Lamb\""
"profile name": "Gehazi", "profile description": "Gehazi was Elisha's helper. He came to the door to tell Naaman that he should take a dip in the Jordan River seven times. The Bible calls him \"the servant of Elisha, the man of God.\"", "profile bible infoscan": "Gehazi was Elisha's young messenger and servant. He was sent to the door by Elisha with a message for Naaman to wash in the Jordan River seven times to be healed of his leprosy. (\"2 Kings:5:10\"). When Naaman left Elisha's house to return home to Syria, Gehazi was filled with greed. He chased after Naaman to take the gifts that Elisha refused to accept. Gehazi lied to Naaman saying that Elisha had sent him to get silver and clothing for two young prophets that had just arrived. Naaman generously and gladly gave him twice what he asked! Gehazi hid the gifts before returning home. Elisha confronted Gehazi and asked him where he had been. Gehazi denied going anywhere. (\"2 Kings:5:20-25\"). In 2 Kings 5:26-27, we read of Gehazi's fate: \"Don't you realize that I was there in spirit when Naaman stepped down from his chariot to meet you? Is this the time to receive money and clothing, olive groves and vineyards, sheep and cattle, and male and female servants? Because you have done this, you and your descendants will suffer from Naaman's leprosy forever.\" When Gehazi left the room, he was covered with leprosy; his skin was white as snow.\" Gehazi is mentioned one other time in the Bible when the Syrian troops surrounded Dothan to capture Elisha. Gehazi came outside in the morning and was terrified to see they were surrounded by a great Syrian army. Elisha comforted his young servant. \"Don't be afraid!\" Elisha told him. \"For there are more on our side than on theirs!\" Then Elisha prayed, \"O LORD, open his eyes and let him see!\" The LORD opened the young man's eyes, and when he looked up, he saw that the hillside around Elisha was filled with horses and chariots of fire. (\"2 Kings:6:13-17\").", "profile life lessons": "Don't be greedy like Gehazi.", "profile key scripture": "But Elisha sent a messenger out to him with this message: \"Go and wash yourself seven times in the Jordan River. Then your skin will be restored, and you will be healed of your leprosy."
"profile name": "King Saul", "profile description": "Saul was the first king of Israel and ruled for 40 years. He was anointed king by the prophet Samuel. Saul was the son of Kish, of the family of the Matrites, and a member of the tribe of Benjamin, one of the twelve Tribes of Israel. The Bible says that Saul was the most handsome man in Israel - head and shoulders taller than anyone else in the land (\"1 Samuel:9:1-2\"). ", "profile bible infoscan": "Saul was the first king of Israel and ruled for 40 years. He was anointed king by the prophet Samuel. Saul was the son of Kish, of the family of the Matrites, and a member of the tribe of Benjamin, one of the twelve Tribes of Israel. The Bible says that Saul was the most handsome man in Israel - head and shoulders taller than anyone else in the land (\"1 Samuel:9:2\"). God revealed to Samuel that Saul was to be anointed as the first king of Israel. Samuel met with Saul and God gave Saul a new heart that day. Saul began to prophesy and all those who heard him were amazed (\"1 Samuel:10:9\"). Samuel then went to the city of Mizpah anointed Saul as king before all of God's people (\"1 Samuel:10:17\"). \"Saul was thirty years old when he became king, and he reigned for forty-two years.\" (\"1 Samuel:13:1\"). Saul was married to Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz. They had four sons and two daughters. The sons were Jonathan, Abinadab, Malchishua and Ish-bosheth. Their daughters were named Merab and Michal. Saul also two sons by Rizpah, Armoni and Mephibosheth. (\"1 Samuel:21:8\") After Saul was anointed as king, the Spirit of God came powerfully upon Saul and he led the Israelite's army to victory against the Ammonites. The people were filled with joy and appreciation and publicly proclaimed Saul as king (\"1 Samuel:11\"). Saul's armies continued to have success against Israelite's enemies. When Saul first became king, he was obedient to follow Samuel's instructions that he received from God. As Saul filled with pride, he began to disobey God and Samuel's instructions. On one occasion, the Philistine armies had gathered to attack Israel. Saul became afraid and impatient to wait for the prophet Samuel to offer sacrifices to God. Saul chose to offer the sacrifices himself. This was forbidden by God. Samuel declared that Saul's kingdom would come to an end and God had chosen a new leader because of his disobedience (\"1 Samuel:13:5\"). In another act of rebellion, Saul did not obey God's command to completely destroy the Amalekites. Saul kept everything that was valuable. When Samuel confronted Saul about his disobedience, Saul lied and made excuses before finally admitting he had sinned (\"1 Samuel:15:1\"). This is what Samuel told King Saul: \"Rebellion is as sinful as witchcraft and stubbornness as bad as worshiping idols. So because you have rejected the command of the Lord, he has rejected you as king.\" (\"1 Samuel:15:23\"). The Spirit and anointing of God that had come upon Saul when he became king were replaced by an evil spirit. Saul was tormented by this spirit and he sent for David to play his harp for him. Whenever David played the evil spirit would leave him and Saul would feel better. Saul loved David very much and David came to live with Saul and become his armor bearer (1 Samuel 16). (\"1 Samuel:16:1\") Saul's love for David did not last - after David's victory over Goliath and his victories in other battles caused Saul to be jealous and afraid of David. However, the Lord was with David, and he grew in favor with God and His people (\"1 Samuel:18:5\"). Saul became paranoid and obsessed with David. He made several unsuccessful attempts at taking David's life. Saul's daughter Michal, and his son Jonathan, both came to David's side and warned him from their father's evil plans (\"1 Samuel:18:1\"). Saul, in a fit of rage, ordered the slaughter of 85 priests and their families at Nob because the priests had fed and helped David and his family (\"1 Samuel:22:11\"). Before a battle with the Philistines, Saul prayed to God for help but the Lord refused to answer him. Saul was frightened and in a panic, met with a witch at Endor for advice. The witch brought back Samuel's ghost from the dead. Samuel prophesied that the Philistine would win the battle. Samuel also said that Saul and his sons would be killed in battle (\"1 Samuel:28:1\"). Samuel's prophecy came true the next day. Saul purposefully fell on his sword to take his own life, and his three sons - Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malkishuaalso also died that day (\"1 Samuel:31:6\"). The only male descendant of Saul to survive was Jonathan's son, Mephibosheth (\"1 Samuel:4:4\"). He came under the protection of David (\"1 Samuel:2:7\").", "profile life lessons": "Obedience is better than sacrifice.", "profile key scripture": "\"As Samuel turned to go, Saul tried to hold him back and tore the hem of his robe. And Samuel said to him, \"The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to someone else - one who is better than you.\""
"profile name": "Esther", "profile description": "A decree goes out saying all the Jews must be killed. Queen Esther faces a moral life and death crisis. Ultimately, she decides to stand up for her people -- the Israelites.", "profile bible infoscan": "What we know about Esther's background comes from \"Esther:2:5-7\" : \"At that time there was a Jewish man in the fortress of Susa whose name was Mordecai son of Jair. He was from the tribe of Benjamin and was a descendant of Kish and Shimei. His family had been among those who, with King Jehoiachin of Judah, had been exiled from Jerusalem to Babylon by King Nebuchadnezzar. This man had a very beautiful and lovely young cousin, Hadassah, who was also called Esther. When her father and mother died, Mordecai adopted her into his family and raised her as his own daughter.\" \"Esther:2:15\" tells us that Esther was the daughter of Abihail, who was Mordecai's uncle. King Xerxes' banished his previous wife and queen from his kingdom because of her disrespect and disobedience. He was now in search of a new queen. Esther was one of the beautiful young women selected to be brought to the king from the entire Persian kingdom. From the women he would select his new queen. During this time, Mordecai kept close tabs on Esther. \"Esther had not told anyone of her nationality and family background, because Mordecai had directed her not to do so. Every day Mordecai would take a walk near the courtyard of the harem to find out about Esther and what was happening to her.\" (\"Esther:2:10-11\"). Esther's attendants were impressed with her and so was the king! The king loved Esther more than any of the other young women. He was so delighted with her that he set the royal crown on her head and declared her queen instead of Vashti.\" (\"Esther:2:16-17\"). Her cousin Mordecai then became a palace official. God was showing favor to His people to accomplish His plan! Esther remained obedient to Mordecai and still kept her secret. She followed Mordecai's directions, as she did when growing up. (\"Esther:2:20\"). Mordecai alerted Esther when he heard two of the king's guards plotting to kill the king. Esther warned the king and gave Mordecai all of the credit. (\"Esther:2:21-23\"). About the time Esther became queen, the king promoted an evil man named Haman to a high level position within the government. By order of the king, everyone must bow as Haman passed by; Mordecai refused. Haman was enraged and formulated a plan to kill Mordecai and all of the Jews in King Xerxes' kingdom. By his influence, Haman convinced the king to agree to his evil plan and it was made official - sealed with the king's signet ring. (\"Esther:3:1-14\"). Mordecai found out about the decree from the king. He sent word to Esther that she must go to the king to save her people. \"Don't think for a moment that because you're in the palace you will escape when all other Jews are killed. If you keep quiet at a time like this, deliverance and relief for the Jews will arise from some other place, but you and your relatives will die. Who knows if perhaps you were made queen for just such a time as this?\" (\"Esther:4:13-14\"). Esther chose to risk her life to go to the king. By law, no one could come to the king unless he requested their presence. Esther sent word to Mordecai to have all of the Jews fast for three days before she went to the king. (\"Esther:4:15-16\"). When Esther approached the king, he was pleased to see her and held out his golden scepter to welcome her. He promised to grant her any request; even up to half his kingdom! Esther requested that Haman and the king come to a banquet she had prepared. (\"Esther:5:1-7\"). During the banquet Esther requested the two men come to a second banquet. In the second banquet, Esther revealed her nationality and Haman's evil plot to wipe out the Jews - this included her! The King was furious. Haman turned pale; shocked and then terrified to hear Esther's secret that Mordecai had told her to keep until such a time as this! The king ordered Haman hanged on the very gallows he had built to execute Mordecai. What a turn of events! (\"Esther:7:1-10\"). On that same day, King Xerxes gave Haman's property to Queen Esther. Then Mordecai was brought before the king because Esther told the king how they were related. The king took off his signet ring and gave it to Mordecai. Esther appointed Mordecai to be in charge of Haman's property.Then Esther went again before the king and begged him to stop the evil plot of Haman against the Jews. Then King told Esther and Mordecai to send a message to the Jews in his name and seal it with his signet ring. The message they wrote gave the Jews authority to defend themselves when they were attacked. The Jews overpowered their enemies and Haman's plan was defeated! Esther wasn't done yet; she asked for the bodies of Haman's ten sons to be hung from the gallows he had constructed. Esther and Mordecai then established an annual celebration called, the Feast of Purim, to remember the defeat of Haman and their victory over their enemies. ( Esther 8-9). Purim is still celebrated today with the entire book of Esther read in synagogues around the world. People use noisemakers as they cheer at the sound of Mordecai's name and boo and hiss at the mention of Haman.", "profile life lessons": "God can place you into amazing positions of influence if you will follow Him with all of your heart.", "profile key scripture": "If you keep quiet at a time like this, deliverance and relief for the Jews will arise from some other place, but you and your relatives will die. Who knows if perhaps you were made queen for just such a time as this?"
"profile name": "Isaac", "profile description": "Isaac, whose name means \"he laughs,\" was the only son of Abraham and Sarah. God blessed Isaac, and Isaac became a wealthy man. He was a man of peace, and when the jealous Philistines filled up his wells, he avoided conflict. Instead of fighting them, he just moved and dug new wells. Isaac died at the age of 180 years, after Jacob had returned with his family from Mesopotamia.", "profile bible infoscan": "Isaac, whose name means \"he laughs,\" was the only son of Abraham and Sarah. He was born when Abraham was 100 years old and Sarah was 90 years old. When he was a young man, God tested Abraham and commanded him to offer Isaac as a sacrifice on a mountain in the land of Moriah (\"Genesis:22\" passed the test, and a ram was substituted for Isaac. Isaac's mother, Sarah, died when he was 36 years old (\"Genesis:23:1\"). After her death, Abraham sent a servant to find a wife for Isaac from his relatives in Mesopotamia. Rebekah was God's choice, and Isaac loved her very much (\"Genesis:24\" twenty years, Isaac and Rebekah were childless, but after he prayed earnestly, Rebekah fell pregnant with twins. Isaac was 60 years old at that time. During a famine, Isaac moved to Gerar where Abimelech, the king of the Philistines lived (\"Genesis:26:1\"). Isaac deceived the king by pretending that his beautiful Rebekah was his sister! Isaac was worried that the Philistines would kill him so that they could have his wife. When Abimelech found out, however, he did not harm them (\"Genesis:26:10-11\"). God blessed Isaac, and he became a wealthy man. He was a man of peace, and when the jealous Philistines filled up his wells, he avoided conflict. Instead of fighting them, he just moved and dug new wells. When Isaac moved to Beersheba, the Lord appeared to him and repeated the promise He had given his father Abraham. Isaac built an altar there and worshiped the Lord (\"Genesis:26:23-25\"). Because Isaac's attitude and behavior honored the Lord, it led King Abimelech to say, \"We can plainly see that the Lord is with you,\" and so he offered a peace treaty to Issac. Isaac died at the age of 180 years, after Jacob had returned with his family from Mesopotamia. His sons, Jacob and Esau, buried him (\"Genesis:35:27-29\").", "profile life lessons": "Trust in God and His promises", "profile key scripture": "From there, Isaac moved to Beersheba, where the Lord appeared to him on the night of his arrival. 'I am the God of your father, Abraham,' he said. 'Do not be afraid, for I am with you and will bless you, I will multiply your descendants, and they will become a great nation. I will do this because of my promise to Abraham my servant.' Then, Isaac built an altar there and worshiped the Lord."
"profile name": "Communion/The Lord's Supper", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Breaking bread and distributing it was part of the Passover ritual, but Jesus gave it a new meaning. He said the bread was His \"body\" and the wine was His \"blood.\" These two elements symbolize His death, and in churches today, we celebrate communion (or the Holy Eucharist) to remind us that Jesus died for us. The words \"Last Supper\" or \"Communion\" are not found in the Bible, but in \"1 Corinthians:11:20\" and \"1 Corinthians:11:33\" , the ritual or practice is referred to as the \"Lord's Supper.\" Christians today still celebrate Communion to remember Jesus' sacrificial death on the cross for our sins and to express our thankfulness and appreciation.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"...Then he broke the bread in pieces and said, 'This is my body which is given for you. Do this to remember me. This cup is the new covenant between God and his people - an agreement confirmed with my blood. Do this to remember me as often as you drink it'.\""
"profile name": "Midianites", "profile description": "God gave the Israelites over to the Midianites for seven years because of their evil ways. The Midianites were cruel and destroyed the Israelites' crops and took their animals. The Israelites cried out to God and He anointed Gideon to rescue His people. Gideon's army surrounded the Midianite camp, blew horns, broke jars, and held up their torches. The Midianites panicked and began to fight each other while trying to escape. The Midianites were defeated that night by the hand of God!", "profile bible infoscan": "Midian was a son of Abraham and Keturah. This made the Midianites descendants of Midian and of Abraham. The meaning of the name Midian is \"strife\" which is fitting as an enemy of God's people. Abraham sent Midian and his brothers to the east which is why in \"Judges:6:3\" they are referred to as \"people of the east.\" (\"Genesis:25:1-5\"). The Midianites occupied territory east of the Jordan River and the Dead Sea and through the desert wilderness of the Arabah. In \"Genesis:37:28\" , Midianite traders purchased Joseph from his brothers and brought him to Egypt. When Moses fled Pharaoh he went to the land of Midian. There, Moses met Jethro, the priest of Midian. Jethro became his father in law when Moses married Zipporah, his daughter. (Exodus 2). When the Israelites approached Canaan, the Midianites became enemies of God's people after Midianite women influenced the Israelites to worship idols. (\"Numbers:25:1-18\"). God then told Moses to take revenge on the Midianites for leading His people into idolatry. Moses sent an army of 12,000 men under Phinehas the priest. This force defeated the Midianites and killed all their males, including their five kings (Numbers 31). This was not the end of the Midianites. The Midianites reappear hundreds of years later in the time of Gideon. \"Because of their evil and disobedience, God turned the Israelites over to the Midianites. The Israelites did evil in the Lord's sight. So the Lord handed them over to the Midianites for seven years. The Midianites were so cruel that the Israelites made hiding places for themselves in the mountains, caves, and strongholds. Whenever the Israelites planted their crops, marauders from Midian, Amalek, and the people of the east would attack Israel, camping in the land and destroying crops as far away as Gaza. They left the Israelites with nothing to eat, taking all the sheep, goats, cattle, and donkeys. These enemy hordes, coming with their livestock and tents, were as thick as locusts; they arrived on droves of camels too numerous to count. And they stayed until the land was stripped bare. So Israel was reduced to starvation by the Midianites. Then the Israelites cried out to the Lord for help.\" (\"Judges:6:1-6\"). God called and empowered Gideon with an army of only 300 men to surprise and defeat the Midianites and their allies. \"Judges:7:21-22\" , \"Each man stood at his position around the camp and watched as all the Midianites rushed around in a panic, shouting as they ran to escape. When the 300 Israelites blew their rams' horns, the Lord caused the warriors in the camp to fight against each other with their swords. Those who were not killed fled to places as far away as Beth-shittah near Zererah and to the border of Abel-meholah near Tabbath.\" (Judges 6-8). Gideon and his men then pursued the enemy who had escaped until they were captured or killed. Judges 8:28 tells us how badly the Midianites were defeated. \"That is the story of how the people of Israel defeated Midian, which never recovered. Throughout the rest of Gideon's lifetime - about forty years - there was peace in the land.\"", "profile life lessons": "Though the enemy seemed overwhelming from the natural point of view, it was not overwhelming in God's eyes.", "profile key scripture": "Soon afterward the armies of Midian, Amalek, and the people of the east formed an alliance against Israel and crossed the Jordan, camping in the valley of Jezreel."
"profile name": "Pharaoh (Joseph)", "profile description": "Pharaoh was the king of Egypt. When he had disturbing dreams, he ended up sending for Joseph. With God's help, Joseph was able to interpret his dreams and show Pharaoh what God was about to do. Pharaoh recognized that the Spirit of God and wisdom was in Joseph. Pharaoh then promoted Joseph to be second in command, directly under Pharaoh! Pharaoh was kind to Joseph and invited his entire family to move to Egypt and live on the best land.", "profile bible infoscan": "Pharaoh is a title rather than a personal name. It means \"Great House\", and is the name given to the ancient kings of Egypt. In the book of Genesis, and also at the time of the Exodus the personal name of the Pharaoh is not recorded. Pharaoh was the king of Egypt at the time of Joseph. Potiphar was an officer under Pharaoh and captain of the guard for him. This is how Joseph ended up in Pharaoh's prison when he was falsely accused by Potiphar's wife. In prison, Joseph accurately interpreted dreams from two of Pharaoh's officials who had offended the king and landed in prison too. After two years, Pharaoh had two dreams. \"Genesis:41:8\" says, \"The next morning Pharaoh was very disturbed by the dreams. So he called for all the magicians and wise men of Egypt. When Pharaoh told them his dreams, not one of them could tell him what they meant.\" The king's cupbearer, who Joseph had interpreted a dream for in prison, finally remembered Joseph. He told Pharaoh that Joseph could give him the meaning of his dreams. Pharaoh immediately sent for Joseph. By God's power, Joseph humbly told Pharaoh what the dreams meant; seven years of prosperity followed by seven years of famine. Pharaoh received what Joseph told him. He also recognized that God's hand was on Joseph's life. \"So Pharaoh asked his officials, \"Can we find anyone else like this man so obviously filled with the spirit of God?\" Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, \"Since God has revealed the meaning of the dreams to you, clearly no one else is as intelligent or wise as you are. You will be in charge of my court, and all my people will take orders from you. Only I, sitting on my throne, will have a rank higher than yours.\" (\"Genesis:41:38-40\"). When the people cried out to Pharaoh for food during the famine, he sent them to Joseph. Pharaoh is heard from one more time after Joseph revealed his identity to his brothers. Pharaoh heard the news! \"The news soon reached Pharaoh's palace: \"Joseph's brothers have arrived!\" Pharaoh and his officials were all delighted to hear this.\" (\"Genesis:45:16\"). Pharaoh told Joseph to quickly send his brothers to Canaan to bring their father and families. He would give them the best land of Egypt! When Joseph's family arrived in Egypt, Jacob was presented to Pharaoh and Jacob blessed him. (\"Genesis:47:7\"). Why would Pharaoh be so kind to Joseph? The answer is mostly likely that Pharaoh knew a good thing when he saw it! He recognized the favor and power of God in Joseph's life. Pharaoh's wealth increased mightily with Joseph in charge. (\"Genesis:47:13-26\").", "profile life lessons": "God can speak to anyone.", "profile key scripture": "Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, \"Since God has revealed the meaning of the dreams to you, clearly no one else is as intelligent or wise as you are."
"profile name": "Jacob (Young)", "profile description": "Jacob, whose name means \"a supplanter,\" was born with his hand grasping Esau's heel (that's called a tag-team!). Jacob traded his bowl of stew for his brother Esau's birthright. He became very wealthy and eventually restored his relationship with his brother. At Peniel, God gave Jacob the name Israel, which means \"prince with God.\" During the time of famine, Jacob went to live in Egypt where his son, Joseph, was second-in-command to Pharaoh.", "profile bible infoscan": "Jacob, whose name means \"a supplanter,\" was born with his hand grasping Esau's heel. Before he was born, God told his mother, Rebekah, that \"the older would serve the younger\" (\"Genesis:25:23\"). As he grew up, Jacob liked to stay at home, and he was his mother's favorite son. Jacob traded his bowl of stew for his brother's birthright (\"Genesis:25:29-34\"). Jacob obtained Isaac's blessing through deceit and fraud (\"Genesis:27:14\"). He then fled to Haran, and on the way, he had a vision of a ladder or stairway (\"Genesis:28:12\"). He served Laban, his uncle, for many years and married his daughters Leah and Rachel (\"Genesis:29:28\"). Jacob had 12 sons and a daughter. He became very wealthy but was still a schemer. He fled from Laban (\"Genesis:31:18\"), and on his journey home, he sent gifts to Esau to ask his forgiveness and to restore their relationship. At Peniel near the Jabbok River, he wrestled with the angel of the Lord (\"Genesis:32:24\"). The angel changed Jacob's name to Israel because he had struggled with both God and man and had won (\"Genesis:32:28\"). Israel literally means \"prince with God.\" Jacob was reunited with his brother, Esau. He asked him for forgiveness, and their relationship was restored (\"Genesis:33\" However, after Jacob and Esau buried their father Isaac after his death, they never saw each other again. During the time of famine, Jacob went to live in Egypt where his son, Joseph, was second-in-command to Pharaoh (\"Genesis:42-46\"). On his death bed, Jacob blessed his 12 sons individually. When he died, his sons took him back to Canaan to be buried in the family grave at Machpelah (\"Genesis:49:33\").", "profile life lessons": "God carries out His plans in spite of the nature or actions of people.", "profile key scripture": "What's more, I am with you, and I will protect you wherever you go. One day I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you until I have finished giving you everything I have promised you."
"profile name": "Miracle Fish Catch", "profile description": "The man called out to the disciples fishing in the Sea of Galilee. They had fished all night, yet their nets were still empty. The man on shore instructed them to put their nets down on the right side of the boat this time. Even though they didn't recognize Him, they did as He suggested. The result was a miracle catch of 153 large fish that they struggled to pull into the boat! Now they knew the man on shore was Jesus - their Lord and Savior!", "profile bible infoscan": "Peter and six other disciples decided to go fishing on the Sea of Galilee. Jesus stood on the shore but they did not recognize Him. The disciples were tired from fishing all night with nothing to show for it. Jesus called to them and asked if they had caught anything. They said they had not. \"Then He said, \"Throw out your net on the right-hand side of the boat, and you'll get some!\" So they did, and they couldn't haul in the net because there were so many fish in it.\" (\"John:21:6\"). The disciples dragged the net ashore. It contained 153 large fish, yet it hadn't torn. (\"John:21:11\"). As amazing as this is, it wasn't the first time the disciples experienced a miracle catch on the Sea of Galilee! At the beginning of Jesus' ministry, He began to preach from Peter's boat as a large crowd listened from the shore. Jesus had not called His disciples to follow Him yet. When Jesus finished preaching, He told Peter to go to deeper water and let down his fishing nets. Peter politely objected, saying that they had just fished all night and caught nothing. Does this sound familiar? (\"Luke:5:1-5\"). Nevertheless, Peter did as Jesus said. \"And this time their nets were so full of fish they began to tear! A shout for help brought their partners in the other boat, and soon both boats were filled with fish and on the verge of sinking. When Simon Peter realized what had happened, he fell to his knees before Jesus and said, \"Oh, Lord, please leave me - I'm too much of a sinner to be around you.\" For he was awestruck by the number of fish they had caught, as were the others with him. His partners, James and John, the sons of Zebedee, were also amazed.\" Jesus replied to Simon, \"Don't be afraid! From now on you'll be fishing for people!\" And as soon as they landed, they left everything and followed Jesus.\" (\"Luke:5:6-11\"). Jesus' two miracles, at the beginning and end of His ministry, taught His disciples that if they would follow and obey, they would \"catch\" people, just as He had enabled them to catch fish. Jesus wanted them to trust in His plan over their own. This quickly became a reality. Peter, full of the Holy Spirit spoke boldly to the crowds on the day of Pentecost. \"Those who believed what Peter said were baptized and added to the church that day - about 3,000 in all.\" (\"Acts:2:41\"). Truly, the disciples had become fishers of people!", "profile life lessons": "God is very patient with us.", "profile key scripture": "Jesus called out to them, \"Come, follow me, and I will show you how to fish for people!\""
"profile name": "The Horn of Oil", "profile description": "In the Old Testament, holy oil was used to anoint people or objects, to make them clean, and to set them aside for God's special use. The OLIVE OIL was kept in a RAM'S HORN, and it was poured over the person's head. ", "profile bible infoscan": "In the Old Testament, holy oil was used to anoint people or objects, to make them clean, and to set them aside for God's special use. The OLIVE OIL was kept in a RAM'S HORN, and it was poured over the person's head. When Samuel anointed Saul and later David, it was just like putting a crown on their heads (\"1 Samuel:16:13\"). The Spirit of God came upon David in that moment and prepared him for his God-given task. In the New Testament, the \"Anointed\" One refers to the promised Messiah: \"God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power and he went around doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil, because God was with him\" (\"Acts:10:38\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "(NKJV) Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers; and the Spirit of the LORD came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel arose and went to Ramah."
"profile name": "Fleece", "profile description": "Gideon asked God for a sign to prove that he was the one to rescue Israel from the Midianites. Gideon put out a piece of wool called a fleece, On the first morning the fleece was wet with dew and the ground was dry. On the second morning of Gideon's the test, the fleece was dry and the ground was covered in dew around it. God graciously did all that Gideon asked.", "profile bible infoscan": "Gideon asked for a sign from God to prove that He was calling Gideon to rescue the Israelites from their enemies - especially the Midianites. To do this, Gideon put out a piece of wool called a fleece. \"Judges:6:36-39\" gives us the account of Gideon's test for God. \"Then Gideon said to God, \"If you are truly going to use me to rescue Israel as you promised, prove it to me in this way. I will put a wool fleece on the threshing floor tonight. If the fleece is wet with dew in the morning but the ground is dry, then I will know that you are going to help me rescue Israel as you promised.\" And that is just what happened. When Gideon got up early the next morning, he squeezed the fleece and wrung out a whole bowlful of water. Then Gideon said to God, \"Please don't be angry with me, but let me make one more request. Let me use the fleece for one more test. This time let the fleece remain dry while the ground around it is wet with dew.\" So that night God did as Gideon asked. The fleece was dry in the morning, but the ground was covered with dew.\" Even though God was patient and honored Gideon's request - putting out a fleece is not an acceptable practice for us today. We have God's Spirit living in us - He will empower us, guide us, and lead us into all truth. (\"John:16:13\").", "profile life lessons": "God will confirm His will to us in the mouth of 2 or 3 witnesses.", "profile key scripture": "Gideon said to God, \"If you are truly going to use me to rescue Israel as you promised prove it to me in this way. I will put a wool fleece on the threshing floor tonight."
"profile name": "Commander of the Lord's Army", "profile description": "Joshua demanded to know whether the man standing before him with a sword drawn was a friend or foe. The man said neither. He was the commander of the Lord's army! Joshua fell with his face to the ground in reverence to this messenger sent by God most believe was Jesus, the Son of God! The commander ordered Joshua to remove his sandals because the place he was standing was holy ground!", "profile bible infoscan": "In \"Judges:6:11-24\" , the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon and called him a mighty hero. He said to Gideon, \"I will be with you. And you will destroy the Midianites as if you were fighting against one man.\" (\"Judges:6:16\"). Gideon couldn't believe what he was seeing and hearing. He asked for a sign to prove that Lord was actually speaking to him. When Gideon returned with a food offering, the angel of the Lord touched the bread and meat with His staff. Fire flamed up from the rock and consumed it. Then the angel disappeared. \"Judges:6:22-24\" says, \"When Gideon realized that it was the angel of the Lord, he cried out, \"Oh, Sovereign Lord, I'm doomed! I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face!\" \"It is all right,\" the Lord replied. \"Do not be afraid. You will not die.\" And Gideon built an altar to the Lord there and named it Yahweh-Shalom (which means \"the Lord is peace\"). The altar remains in Ophrah in the land of the clan of Abiezer to this day.\" Gideon was overwhelmed and believed he was doomed since He saw the Lord face to face. The angel of the Lord was likely an Old Testament appearance of Jesus. Many Bible scholars believe the Commander of the Lord's Army is an Old Testament appearance of Jesus also. Joshua's conquest over Jericho begins with the appearance of \"the Commander of the army of the Lord.\" (\"Joshua:5:13-15\"). How would you like to see the Commander of the Lord's army before going to battle? Can you imagine your confidence level after seeing His drawn sword? God showed Joshua that He was with him and in charge of the battle. Joshua was serving the same God that appeared to Moses in the burning bush. Moses and Joshua stood on holy ground at His appearance. (\"Exodus:3:5\"). Many theologians believe this is Jesus as the \"Lord Sabaoth\" or \"Lord of the Armies of Heaven.\" Theologians call this a theophany, or an appearance of God. Theophany is Greek, meaning \"God\" (theo) and \"to reveal oneself\" (phaneia). What Joshua most likely saw was Jesus as God in human form. There are many references to the Son of God in the Old Testament; but He isn't called Jesus. When the Son of God appears in the Old Testament, He does so \"pre-incarnate,\" or before He was born of the Virgin Mary. References to the Son of God appear more than 150 times in the Old Testament. He is so clearly identified throughout the Old Testament that the apostle Paul even used it to teach about Jesus: \"So a time was set, and on that day a large number of people came to Paul's lodging. He explained and testified about the Kingdom of God and tried to persuade them about Jesus from the Scriptures. Using the Law of Moses and the books of the prophets, he spoke to them from morning until evening\" (\"Acts:28:23\"). Here are a few times that Bible teachers believe the Jesus appeared in the Old Testament: The Judge with a Warning -- In Genesis 18, the \"angel of the Lord\" appears to Abraham along with two other angels. The angels all look like men. They warn Abraham of God's plan to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham refers to Him as \"the judge of all the earth\" (\"Genesis:18:25\"), which can only be a reference to God. The Blessing -- In Genesis 32, Jacob, who is the father of the 12 tribes of Israel, wrestles all night with a stranger. Jacob holds his own in the fight and then asks his foe for a blessing. \"Jacob named the place Peniel (which means 'face of God'), for he said, \"I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been spared\"' (\"Genesis:32:30\"). Peniel means, \"face of God,\" so Jacob believed he had been face-to-face with God. God the Son -- In Isaiah 9:6, the prophet declares, \"For a child is born to us, a son is given to us. The government will rest on His shoulders. And He will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.\" A committed Jew would never refer to a mere human being as \"Mighty God\" or \"Everlasting Father.\" The Son of Man -- Daniel writes: \"As my vision continued that night, I saw someone like a Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the Ancient One and was led into His presence. He was given authority, honor, and sovereignty over all the nations of the world, so that people of every race and nation and language would obey Him. His rule is eternal - it will never end. His kingdom will never be destroyed\" (\"Daniel:7:13-14\"). The fourth person in the fire -- Many Bible scholars believe that the fourth person in the fiery furnace was Jesus. He suddenly appeared with the three Hebrew men and walked around with them. So, what Nebuchadnezzar said looked like a god or a son of the gods in the fire - was likely Jesus in human form. (\"Daniel:3:23-28\"). Jesus often used the title \"Son of Man\" when referring to Himself. The one that Daniel called the \"Son of Man\" had to be divine, or He would not accept the worship of the people. It is very likely that the angel of the Lord who appeared to Gideon before battling the Midianites and the Commander of the Lord's army that appeared to Joshua before defeating Jericho are both Jesus Christ! (\"Judges:6:11-16\" ; Joshua 13-15).", "profile life lessons": "Jesus has promised you that He will always be with you and will never leave you alone.", "profile key scripture": "\"I am the commander of the Lord's army.\" At this, Joshua fell with his face to the ground in reverence. \"I am at your command,\" Joshua said. \"What do you want your servant to do?\""
"profile name": "Damascus", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The founder of the city of Damascus was Uz. Uz was the grandson of Shem and great-grandson of Noah (\"Genesis:9:18\" , \"Genesis:10:23\"). Damascus is first mentioned in the Bible in the story of Abraham. It was the oldest continually-inhabited city in the world and the capital of Syria (\"Isaiah:7:8\"). Damascus was situated in northern Palestine, northeast of the Sea of Galilee and Mount Hermon. It was an important city as three major caravan routes passed through the city, and it became a trade center with roads extending in different directions (\"Ezekiel:27:18\"). Two rivers, the Abana and Pharpar (\"2 Kings:5:12\"), provided Damascus with plenty of water for farming. Damascus is mentioned throughout the Old Testament, especially during the rules of King David and King Solomon and then during the rule of Assyria. All references to Damascus in the New Testament are associated with the Apostle Paul's conversion and ministry. Modern Damascus still has long streets with open-air markets that sell the same types of things sold in ancient times. However, there is now a strong influence of the Muslim culture, and their Great Mosque now stands on the site of a former Christian church.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Saul's preaching became more and more powerful, and the Jews in Damascus couldn't refute his proofs that Jesus was indeed the Messiah.\""
"profile name": "Manna", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Manna is the food that God provided miraculously for the Israelites in the wilderness during their Exodus from Egypt (\"Exodus:16:15\" , \"Exodus:16:31-33\" , \"Numbers:11:6-9\"). It was a visible reminder to the Israelites that God loved them and would care and provide for them and their needs. When they saw the flaky substance on the ground, the Israelites asked, \"What is it?\" (\"Exodus:16:15\"), and this became the name given to the food: \"manna\" (which literally means \"What is it?\") It was a small round substance like frost (\"Exodus:16:14\") and like white coriander seed. It tasted like wafers made with honey (\"Exodus:16:31\") or pastry prepared with oil (\"Numbers:11:8\"). Yum. If God sent me a Danish every morning, I wouldn't complain.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"So the people of Israel ate manna for forty years until they arrived at the land where they would settle. They ate manna until they came to the border of the land of Canaan.\""
"profile name": "The Advisers to King Darius", "profile description": "Talk about some petulant people! Some of the advisers to King Darius were so mean (and insecure) that they conspired a plan to get King Darius to sign a decree that would allow them to throw Daniel into a den full of lions. But they ended up meeting this fate instead of Daniel.", "profile bible infoscan": "Many wise men, magicians, and enchanters were found in the court of the king. These advisers became very jealous of Daniel because of his wisdom and favor with the king. They tricked the king into signing a decree forbidding prayer. They knew Daniel's faith was strong and that he would not stop praying. They succeeded in getting Daniel thrown into the lions' den - but later paid with their own lives.", "profile life lessons": "Sometimes when you plan evil for others, it may come upon you.", "profile key scripture": "\"And now, Your Majesty, issue and sign this law so it cannot be changed, an official law of the Medes and Persians that cannot be revoked.\""
"profile name": "Creation", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "God created the world for us to enjoy and to take care of. The Fall of Man separated us from God as well as from the perfect state of how He originally created things. But there is good news, and that is that God sent His only Son, Jesus, to repair our relationship with God. This was done through Jesus' death and resurrection. Jesus ascended to heaven, but He will return once more. And when He returns, the world will return back to the perfect state that God originally intended.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth."
"profile name": "The Valley of Elah", "profile description": "The Valley of Elah was the site of the battle between David and Goliath (\"1 Samuel:17:2\" , \"1 Samuel:17:9\" , \"1 Samuel:21:9\"). It was located due west of Bethlehem and just east of the Philistine village of Gath. The armies of Israel and Philistia faced each other across the Valley of Elah. After David defeated Goliath, the Israelites chased the Philistines to Ekron and Gath (Goliath's home town).", "profile bible infoscan": "The Valley of Elah was the site of the battle between David and Goliath (\"1 Samuel:17:2\" , \"1 Samuel:17:9\" , \"1 Samuel:21:9\"). It was located due west of Bethlehem and just east of the Philistine village of Gath. The armies of Israel and Philistia faced each other across the Valley of Elah. After David defeated Goliath, the Israelites chased the Philistines to Ekron and Gath (Goliath's home town).", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "David's brothers were with Saul and the Israelite army at the valley of Elah, fighting against the Philistines."
"profile name": "Naaman", "profile description": "Naaman was the captain of the army of the king of Aram (Syria). He was a great warrior and highly respected because he had given victories to Aram. The man was also a valiant warrior, but he was a leper. ", "profile bible infoscan": "Naaman was the commander of the army of Aram (Syria) and served King Ben-Hadad II. His name means \"beautiful\" or \"pleasant,\" which speaks of Naaman after God miraculously healed him. He was a great warrior and highly respected because he had given victories to Aram. However, (\"2 Kings:5:1\") tells us something else about Naaman. \"The king of Aram had great admiration for Naaman, the commander of his army, because through him the Lord had given Aram great victories. But though Naaman was a mighty warrior, he suffered from leprosy.\" Yes, it would seem that Naaman had everything going for him except he there was one thing he could not defeat on his own; a serious skin disease called leprosy. Leprosy in that day was incurable. The leper was considered unclean and in some cases even quarantined. (Leviticus 13-14). Most likely because of his position, Naaman was allowed to stay in the city. At this time, Aramean raiders had invaded the land of Israel. One of the Israelites taken captive was a young girl who became a maid to Naaman's wife. One day the young girl told Naaman's wife that a prophet in Samaria could heal Naaman of his leprosy. Naaman shared what the young girl had said with the king. The king wrote a letter of introduction for Naaman to take to the king of Israel asking that Naaman be healed. This was a very humbling experience for Naaman. He was a proud warrior and Israel was the enemy! Even so, Naaman was desperate; he took expensive gifts and the letter to the King of Israel. The king of Israel felt threatened and believed the King of Syria was trying to pick a fight with him! In contrast, Elisha saw this as an opportunity to bring glory to God! (2 Kings 5:1-7). \"But when Elisha, the man of God, heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes in dismay, he sent this message to him: \"Why are you so upset? Send Naaman to me, and he will learn that there is a true prophet here in Israel.\" (\"2 Kings:5:8\"). So Naaman went with his horses and chariots and waited at the door of Elisha's house. But Elisha sent a messenger out to him with this message: \"Go and wash yourself seven times in the Jordan River. Then your skin will be restored, and you will be healed of your leprosy.\" Naaman became angry and offended. Elisha would not even come to the door and talk with him; he sent a lowly servant instead! Naaman turned and went away in a rage! (\"2 Kings:5:10-12\"). Fortunately for Naaman, he was surrounded by wise officers who convinced him to follow Elisha's surprisingly simple instructions. \"But his officers tried to reason with him and said, \"Sir, if the prophet had told you to do something very difficult, wouldn't you have done it? So you should certainly obey him when he says simply, 'Go and wash and be cured!'\" So Naaman went down to the Jordan River and dipped himself seven times, as the man of God had instructed him. And his skin became as healthy as the skin of a young child, and he was healed!\" (\"2 Kings:5:13-14\"). Can you imagine what it would be like to see healthy skin instead of the leprosy? He was healed; not by the Syrian gods, but by the one true God of Israel! Naaman was so grateful that he returned to say thank you to Elisha and give him gifts. Naaman declared that there was no God in the entire world except in Israel. Elisha refused to take any gifts for a miracle that God alone had done! Then Naaman said, \"All right, but please allow me to load two of my mules with earth from this place, and I will take it back home with me. From now on I will never again offer burnt offerings or sacrifices to any other god except the Lord. However, may the Lord pardon me in this one thing: When my master the king goes into the temple of the god Rimmon to worship there and leans on my arm, may the Lord pardon me when I bow, too.\" \"Go in peace,\" Elisha said. So Naaman started home again. (2 Kings 17-19). The proud warrior Naaman had been humbled by God and chose to worship only him! In Luke 4:27, Jesus honored Naaman for humbling himself to obey God's instructions and receive his healing: \"And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, but the only one healed was Naaman, a Syrian.\" (\"2 Kings:5:9\")", "profile life lessons": "Even the greatest and the most powerful men and women in the world can be humbled by God, just as Naaman was.", "profile key scripture": "Now I know that there is no God in all the world except in Israel. So please accept a gift from your servant."
"profile name": "Kinnor", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "And whenever the tormenting spirit from God troubled Saul, David would play the harp. This was also known as a Kinnor. Then Saul would feel better, and the tormenting spirit would go away. (\"1 Samuel:16:23\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"And whenever the tormenting spirit from God troubled Saul, David would play the harp.\""
"profile name": "The Parable of the Sower", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Agriculture was important in New Testament times. Jesus often referred to the land, using illustrations that were familiar to His audience. The Parable of the Sower was one of these illustrations. In Israel, plowing and sowing began in the middle of October at the time of the early rains and were then followed by harrowing (breaking up and smoothing the soil) and weeding. The later rains were vital for ripening the crops, and the rainy season usually ended in early April. Plowing was done by the workers with hoes or by a plow pulled by animals. Sowing took place after the first rains had softened the ground. If the farmer tried to plow before the rain, the plow-blade could not dig into the hard ground. There were two methods of sowing seed: by throwing the seeds by hand or using a seed-drill. When sowing by hand, the farmer walked along the furrows at a constant pace, pulling handfuls of seed from a bag at his side and throwing them over the soil. About 30 lbs of seed was used to a half acre of land. This is about half the quantity of seed normally used today. When using the seed drill method, at least three people were needed: one to direct the plow and push the handle down into the soil, one to direct the animals, and a third person to hold the seed bag on his shoulder and drop the seeds into the funnel which pointed down to the soil. The seeds would fall behind the plow-point where they were covered by the falling soil. Read \"Mark:4:14-20\" to learn the meaning of this parable.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "And the seed that fell on good soil represents those who hear and accept God's word and produce a harvest of thirty, sixty, or even a hundred times as much as had been planted!\""
"profile name": "Rebekah (at the Well)", "profile description": "When Isaac's wife Rebekah became pregnant with twins, she prayed about the babies struggling within her womb. God revealed to her that the twins would become two rival nations and the older of the twins would serve the younger. Instead of trusting God, she began to scheme for her favorite son, Jacob. When she died, she was buried in the cave of Machpelah.", "profile bible infoscan": "Rebekah's father was Bethuel and her brother was Laban. They lived in Padan-aram in Mesopotamia, the area from which Abraham came. When Abraham was very old and after Sarah had died, he sent his servant to find a wife for Isaac among his relatives because he didn't want Isaac to marry a Canaanite woman. In Genesis 24, we read how the servant prayed and waited at the well. God showed him that Rebekah was to be Isaac's wife when she gave him water to drink. Rebekah agreed to travel to Canaan to marry Isaac, a forty-year-old man whom she had never met. Isaac loved her very much, but they were married for twenty years before God answered Isaac's prayer for a child. Rebekah fell pregnant with twins. She prayed about the babies struggling within her womb. God revealed to her that the twins would become two rival nations and the older of the twins would serve the younger (\"Genesis:25:19-26\" , \"Romans:9:10-12\"). This seemed to influence Rebekah's actions. Instead of trusting God, she began to scheme for her favorite son, Jacob. She masterminded the plot that resulted in Esau trading away his birthright to his brother (\"Genesis:25:27-34\"). Jacob received the firstborn blessing instead of Esau (\"Genesis:27:1-40\"). Jacob was then sent away to escape Esau's murderous threats (\"Genesis:27:41-46\"). Rebekah never saw Jacob again. When she died, she was buried in the cave of Machpelah (\"Genesis:49:30-31\").", "profile life lessons": "You can speak to God about your concerns.", "profile key scripture": "But the two children struggled with each other in her womb. So she went to ask the Lord about it. 'Why is this happening to me?' she asked."
"profile name": "Prodigal - Younger Son", "profile description": "The Prodigal Son asked for his inheritance from his father before his death. He then traveled to a distant land and wasted all of his money on wild living. He returned home, hoping his father would allow him to work as a servant. The father ran to his son and embraced him. He clothed him with his finest robe, sandals, and a ring; then he held a feast to celebrate his son's return home. the son was dead and now alive; he was lost and now found! ", "profile bible infoscan": "The Prodigal Son is the title of one of Jesus' many parables that He taught. (\"Luke:15:11\"). The prodigal, or lost son, disrespectfully asks for his inheritance even before his father's death. The title describes the young son's lifestyle; prodigal in this story means \"extremely wasteful.\" The son leaves home and carelessly spends his inheritance on sinful, wild living. After losing everything, he finds a job feeding pigs for a farmer. The Jews considered pigs to be unclean so this was the lowliest job that anyone could do. The son was so hungry that even the food he fed the pigs looked good to him. The young son had reached rock bottom. Jesus said that when the boy came to his senses, he returned home to his father and planned to ask him to be a hired servant - no longer feeling worthy to be called his son. While he was yet a long way off, the father saw him and was filled with love and compassion. He ran to his son and embraced and kissed him. Luke 15:22-24 says, \"But his father said to the servants, 'Quick! Bring the finest robe in the house and put it on him. Get a ring for his finger and sandals for his feet. And kill the calf we have been fattening. We must celebrate with a feast, for this son of mine was dead and has now returned to life. He was lost, but now he is found.' So the party began.\" Everyone seemed to be rejoicing except for the older son who was extremely angry with all that had happened. He believed that his younger brother did not deserve anything but punishment and rejection for his rebellion. \"His father said to him, 'Look, dear son, you have always stayed by me, and everything I have is yours. We had to celebrate this happy day. For your brother was dead and has come back to life! He was lost, but now he is found!'\" (\"Luke:15:31\"). The young son represents everyone who rebels against God, choosing to go their own way, and making unwise choices. The true focus of the story, however, should be on the forgiving, merciful, and patient nature of the father. He unconditionally loves his son and welcomes him home. Through this parable, Jesus defends God's offer of acceptance and salvation to everyone, regardless of who they are or what they have done. Many times, we are the Prodigal Son who need to experience the never ending forgiveness and mercy of our loving heavenly Father. (\"Luke:15:11\").", "profile life lessons": "God's love will be with you always, even when you make a mess of things.", "profile key scripture": "A few days later this younger son packed all his belongings and moved to a distant land, and there he wasted all his money in wild living."
"profile name": "Rebekah", "profile description": "When Isaac's wife Rebekah became pregnant with twins, she prayed about the babies struggling within her womb. God revealed to her that the twins would become two rival nations and the older of the twins would serve the younger. Instead of trusting God, she began to scheme for her favorite son, Jacob. When she died, she was buried in the cave of Machpelah.", "profile bible infoscan": "Rebekah's father was Bethuel and her brother was Laban. They lived in Padan-aram in Mesopotamia, the area from which Abraham came. When Abraham was very old and after Sarah had died, he sent his servant to find a wife for Isaac among his relatives because he didn't want Isaac to marry a Canaanite woman. In Genesis 24, we read how the servant prayed and waited at the well. God showed him that Rebekah was to be Isaac's wife when she gave him water to drink. Rebekah agreed to travel to Canaan to marry Isaac, a forty-year-old man whom she had never met. Isaac loved her very much, but they were married for twenty years before God answered Isaac's prayer for a child. Rebekah fell pregnant with twins. She prayed about the babies struggling within her womb. God revealed to her that the twins would become two rival nations and the older of the twins would serve the younger (\"Genesis:25:19-26\" , \"Romans:9:10-12\"). This seemed to influence Rebekah's actions. Instead of trusting God, she began to scheme for her favorite son, Jacob. She masterminded the plot that resulted in Esau trading away his birthright to his brother (\"Genesis:25:27-34\"). Jacob received the firstborn blessing instead of Esau (\"Genesis:27:1-40\"). Jacob was then sent away to escape Esau's murderous threats (\"Genesis:27:41-46\"). Rebekah never saw Jacob again. When she died, she was buried in the cave of Machpelah (\"Genesis:49:30-31\").", "profile life lessons": "You can speak to God about your concerns.", "profile key scripture": "But the two children struggled with each other in her womb. So she went to ask the Lord about it. 'Why is this happening to me?' she asked."
"profile name": "Daniel", "profile description": "As a Jewish captive in the land of Babylon, Daniel continued to obey God and hold on to his convictions from God's word. Daniel's bold actions showed his dedication and commitment, doing what was right regardless of the consequences.", "profile bible infoscan": "When Jerusalem was conquered by King Nebuchanezzar, a young boy named Daniel from one of Judah's noble families was taken captive to Babylon, about 500 miles away. Although he was given the Babylonian name Belteshazzar (which was derived from one of the Babylonian gods), Daniel remained faithful to the living God. He was not only intelligent and wise; he was also courageous. He obeyed God and held on to his convictions from God's Word. He stood up for what he believed was right, and God chose him to record not only the events of the captivity but also events of the future. Daniel and his friends chose not to eat the king's food. Instead they chose a simpler, healthier menu, in keeping with their faith (\"Daniel:1\" s bold actions showed his dedication and commitment, doing what was right regardless of the consequences. He did not give in to pressure to conform - pressures from society, peers, or even the government. He trusted and obeyed God, and his clear purpose in life was to glorify God. He persevered and served for 70 years in a foreign land that was hostile to his religion. In all that time, he did not compromise his faith in God. He was truthful, prayerful, and devoted to God. He worked diligently and efficiently and rose to a position of influence. Daniel also: - served as a prophet to the exiles from 605 to 536 BC - interpreted King Nebuchadnezzar's dreams (\"Daniel:2-4\") - explained the writing on the wall and God's judgment to King Belshazzar (\"Daniel:5\") - received visions and messages about the future by God (\"Daniel:7-12\") ", "profile life lessons": "Allow God to use you and your gifts for His glory.", "profile key scripture": "Then the other administrators and high officers began searching for some fault in the way Daniel was handling government affairs, but they couldn't find anything to criticize or condemn. He was faithful, always responsible, and completely trustworthy."
"profile name": "John (Young)", "profile description": "Before Jesus called him to be a disciple, he was a fisherman (Matthew 4:18-22, Mark 1:16-20). John's relationship with Jesus was so close that he was called \"the disciple Jesus loved.\" John wrote the Gospel of John, 1 John, 2 John, 3 John, and Revelation.", "profile bible infoscan": "John was the son of Zebedee and the brother of James. Before Jesus called him to be a disciple, he was a fisherman in the family business on the Sea of Galilee (\"Matthew:4:18-22\" , \"Mark:1:16-20\"). He became one of Jesus' closest disciples. He was present when Jesus healed Jairus' daughter (\"Mark:5:37\"), and he witnessed Jesus' transfiguration (\"Luke:9:28-29\"). He was also with Jesus the night He prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. John and James were nicknamed the Sons of Thunder (\"Mark:3:17\"), and it seems that John was in a leadership position among the disciples. He was referred to as \"The disciple whom Jesus loved.\" At Jesus' crucifixion, Jesus handed Mary, His mother, to John. John took Mary into his home and cared for her as his own mother. (\"John:19:26-27\"). John was one of the disciples who chose to go fishing with Peter on the Sea of Galilee. They fished all night and caught nothing. Jesus appeared on shore that morning and called to them to put their nets on the right side of the boat. They didn't recognize Him but still obeyed. They couldn't even haul in their net with a miracle catch of 153 large fish! John was the first one to recognize that the man on the shore was Jesus. This prompted Peter to immediately jump in and swim toward the shore. John and the rest of the disciples hauled the miracle catch in and enjoyed breakfast with Jesus. It was the third time that John and the other disciples had seen Jesus after His resurrection. (\"John:21:1-13\"). After Jesus took Peter aside and restored him, He told Peter about how he would serve Christ and how his death would glorify God. Peter then looked at John and asked Jesus if he would experience the same things. Jesus replied, \"If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you? As for you, follow Me.\" So the rumor spread among the community of believers that this disciple would not die. But that isn't what Jesus said at all. He only said, \"If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you?\" (\"John:21:22-23\").", "profile life lessons": "Follow Jesus when He calls you to be a disciple.", "profile key scripture": "\"So now I am giving you a new commandment: Love each other. Just as I have loved you, you should love each other. Your love for one another will prove to the world that you are my disciples.\""
"profile name": "David", "profile description": "My infoscan says that DAVID was the youngest of Jesse's eight sons. David obeyed his father and carried out his family responsibilities. During his life, he was a shepherd, musician, poet, soldier, and king. A pretty busy fellow, for real. Samuel anointed him as king, but it was many years before he actually became king of Israel (\"1 Samuel:16\"). One of his most famous feats was his encounter with Goliath.", "profile bible infoscan": "David was the youngest of Jesse's eight sons. David obeyed his father and carried out his family responsibilities. During his life, he was a shepherd, musician, poet, soldier and king. He was a pretty busy fellow, for real. Samuel anointed him as king, but it was many years before he actually became leader of Israel (\"1 Samuel:16:0\"). David went into the service of King Saul, and his music helped to calm the troubled ruler (\"1 Samuel:16:0\"). David became a successful soldier after his famous defeat of the giant Philistine named Goliath. King Saul was jealous of him and tried to kill him. Michal, David's wife (who was also Saul's daughter) helped him escape (\"1 Samuel:19:9-24\"). David and Jonathan, Saul's son, became best friends. They made a pact to always be there for each other. When Saul was determined to kill David, Jonathan helped him escape (\"1 Samuel:18:0\" , \"1 Samuel:20:0\"). Saul became obsessed with wanting to kill David, and he spent many years chasing him. On two occasions, David could have killed Saul, but he did not because he knew Saul was God's anointed king (\"1 Samuel:24:0\" , \"1 Samuel:26:0\"). After Saul's death, David was anointed king over Judah, and then king over all Israel (\"2 Samuel:2:0\" , \"2 Samuel:5:0\"). David trusted and believed in a faithful and forgiving God. When he sinned, he admitted his mistakes, confessed his sin, and received forgiveness. When he committed adultery and murder, his confessions and repentance were genuine, but he still had to face the consequences of his sin (\"2 Samuel:11:0\" , \"2 Samuel:12:0\" , \"Psalms:51:0\" David's son Solomon became king after David died (\"1 Kings:2:0\"). The Bible describes David as \"a man after God's own heart\" (\"1 Samuel:13:14\" , \"Acts:13:22\"). During David's reign as king, he asked God to bless him and his family. His dynasty continued forever, because one of his descendants was Jesus Christ. (Read his prayer in \"2 Samuel:7:29\" .) David was the greatest king of Israel and a part of Jesus' family!", "profile life lessons": "Trust in God. He has the power to help you when you are faced with a challenge.", "profile key scripture": "So as David stood there among his brothers, Samuel took the flask of olive oil he had brought and anointed David with the oil. And the Spirit of the LORD came powerfully upon David from that day on. Then Samuel returned to Ramah."
"profile name": "King Nebuchadnezzar", "profile description": "King Nebuchadnezzar II required all the people to bow down and worship his gold statue. When the three Hebrew men refused, the king flew into rage. He had them tied up and thrown into roaring flames. The king inched closer to the furnace. He noticed four men walking around in the fire, unharmed! This caused him to release the Hebrew men and even praise the \"Most High\" God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.", "profile bible infoscan": "Nebuchadnezzar II was a Babylonian king who reigned from 605 BC to 562 BC. He is considered the greatest king of the Babylonian Empire. Nebuchadnezzar was the oldest son and successor of Nabopolassar, who delivered Babylon from its dependence on Assyria and destroyed the city of Nineveh. We know from the Bible that King Nebuchadnezzar conquered Judah and Jerusalem in in 586 BC, and sent the Jews into exile. He was actually called a servant by God and used by Him to bring judgment for the sins of God's people. (\"Daniel:1:1-2\" ;\"Jeremiah:25:9\"). Nebuchadnezzar actually protected God's prophet, Jeremiah.(\"Jeremiah:39:11-14\"). Nebuchadnezzar is mentioned most in Daniel 1-4. He is widely remembered for his dealings with the four young Hebrew slaves - Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These four Jews were of royal or noble birth from the Kingdom of Judah. They were taken to Babylon when Jerusalem was occupied by the Babylonians in 606/605 BC, under the campaign of Nebuchadnezzar II. This took place during the first deportation of the Israelites. He deported much of the Jewish population of Judea to Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar quickly realized that God had filled these men with wisdom and understanding and quickly promoted them to his court. (Daniel 1) Nebuchadnezzar believed and worshiped pagan gods named Nabu and Marduk. Nebuchadnezzar, as did many kings, looked to the astrologers and magicians for advice, counsel, and in this case, to interpret his dreams. The Bible twice records that Daniel was able to interpret the king's dreams when his wise men failed. In fact, in Daniel 2, they said what the king asked them to reveal was impossible for anyone - except the gods. They were actually partially correct. It was impossible for humans. On his own, Daniel wasn't able to provide the answers the king sought either. However, with the one true God, all things are possible. God revealed the dream and the meaning to the king through Daniel. In Daniel 3, the king had a gold statue made that was ninety feet tall and nine feet wide. He ordered everyone to bow down and worship the statue whenever the instruments played. Everyone obeyed... except Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They refused to worship any other gods except the one true living God. Nebuchadnezzar was furious with rage because they defied his command. He ordered them to be tied up and thrown into the blazing furnace; only after it was heated seven times hotter! The king then received what may have been the shock of his life. \"Then King Nebuchadnezzar leaped to his feet in amazement and asked his advisers - \"Weren't there three men that we tied up and threw into the fire?\" They replied, \"Certainly, Your Majesty.\" He said, \"Look! I see four men walking around in the fire, unbound and unharmed, and the fourth looks like a son of the gods.\" Nebuchadnezzar then approached the opening of the blazing furnace and shouted, \"Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out! Come here!\" So Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego came out of the fire.\" (\"Daniel:3:24-26\"). The three men were not only alive - they were untouched by the roaring flames and didn't even smell like smoke! The king praised God and even promoted the three men for their boldness to defy his orders and stay true to God! (\"Daniel:3:27-30\") In Daniel chapter 4, the king again had another dream that his wise men could not interpret. The king called for Daniel who once again did not disappoint - with God's help. However, Daniel was very disturbed by the meaning of God's dream. He was even afraid to tell the king! After Nebuchadnezzar reassured Daniel, he told the king what God revealed. In the dream God called Nebuchadnezzar to repent of his pride and sins. He had become strong and great and he needed to be humbled to see that His power came from God. Daniel said, \"King Nebuchadnezzar, please accept my advice. Stop sinning and do what is right. Break from your wicked past and be merciful to the poor. Perhaps then you will continue to prosper.\" (\"Daniel:4:27\"). One year later, everything came to pass as Daniel had said. The king lived as a wild animal in the fields for seven years. (\"Daniel:4:1-33\"). After seven years, the king praised and honored God and his sanity returned to him (\"Daniel:4:34-37\"). Did Nebuchadnezzar truly repent and become a believer in only God after those seven years? It would seem entirely possible after reading \"Daniel:4:34-37\" . It is also possible that the king believed in many gods, including God. We can't know for sure; however, we do know that God has the desire and power to save all people! (\"1 Timothy:2:3-4\" ; \"2 Peter:3:9\").", "profile life lessons": "Pride comes before the fall.", "profile key scripture": "\"Look!\" Nebuchadnezzar shouted. \"I see four men, unbound, walking around in the fire unharmed! And the fourth looks like a god!\""
"profile name": "The Servant Girl of Naaman", "profile description": "Aramean raiders invaded the land of Israel, and among their captives was a young girl who had been given to Naaman's wife as a maid. ", "profile bible infoscan": "This young Hebrew servant girl was taken captive by Aramean raiders who attacked Israel. She was given to Naaman's wife to be her maid. The young Hebrew girl had a small voice but also huge faith to share her belief that God could heal Naaman of his incurable disease - leprosy. She had the courage to share her belief in the midst of a powerful army commander's house and country that worshiped idols. Because of her boldness, Naaman was healed inside and out! Imagine what she must have felt to see her master return from his journey with healthy skin like a young child; completely healed and committed to worship only the one true God of Israel! (\"2 Kings:5:1-19\").", "profile life lessons": "Be like this young maid and rely on the power of God.", "profile key scripture": "I wish my master would go to see the prophet in Samaria. He would heal him of his leprosy."
"profile name": "Tobiah", "profile description": "Tobiah was a close ally of Sanballat. Together, they opposed the work of Nehemiah in Jerusalem. Tobiah was an Ammonite official under the king of Persia. Tobiah watched the workers as they built the wall. He mocked them, saying, \"That stone wall would collapse if even a fox walked along the top of it!\" Nehemiah prayed and asked God to remember all the evil things that Sanballat and Tobiah had done! ", "profile bible infoscan": "Tobiah was a close ally of Sanballat. Together, they opposed the work of Nehemiah in Jerusalem. Tobiah was an Ammonite official under the King of Persia. The Ammonites were longtime enemies of God's people. Tobiah, Sanballat, and Greshem taunted and mocked the Israelites as they worked on the wall. (\"Nehemiah:2:10\"). Tobiah watched the workers as they built the wall. He mocked them, saying, \"That stone wall would collapse if even a fox walked along the top of it!\" When the wall was almost finished, Tobiah and Sanballat made plans to attack the city. Nehemiah prayed, and God protected the city. (\"Nehemiah:4:3\"). Nehemiah prayed and asked God to remember all the evil things that Sanballat and Tobiah had done! (\"Nehemiah:6:14\"). Many leaders in Judah supported Tobiah. They told Nehemiah about the good deeds Tobiah did. The leaders sent letters back and forth with Tobiah as the wall was rebuilt. This gave Tobiah \"inside\" information about Nehemiah's activities. Tobiah used this information to threaten and intimidate Nehemiah (\"Nehemiah:6:19\").", "profile life lessons": "You can fool people but not God.", "profile key scripture": "Remember, O my God, all the evil things that Tobiah and Sanballat have done. And remember Noadiah the prophet and all the prophets like her who have tried to intimidate me."
"profile name": "Jonah", "profile description": "Jonah was a prophet on the run. Instead of obeying God, he wanted to do his own thing. After an incredible experience with a great fish, he obeyed God but became very unhappy when God showed mercy to the Ninevites.", "profile bible infoscan": "Jonah was the son of Amittai. The name Jonah means \"dove\". He was an early prophet among the twelve \"minor prophets.\" He prophesied about 780 B.C. during the days that King Jeroboam II reigned over Israel (\"2 Kings:14:23-35\"). Jonah understood God's power but did not understand the extent of His love and mercy. When God told him to go to Nineveh to cry out against their wickedness , Jonah became angry. He did not think the Ninevites deserved God's forgiveness; they should instead be punished! He knew that God was full of love and mercy and would not harm the Ninevites if they listened to God's warning. Nineveh was a very large city and the capital city of the nation of Assyria - the hated enemy of Israel that continually made war and fought against the Jews. Jonah thought he knew better than God what should happen to the people of Nineveh. So, instead of obeying God and warning the people of Nineveh, Jonah got on a ship traveling to Tarshish - the opposite direction! Jonah was the only prophet in the Bible that we know of who ran away from God. (Jonah 1:1-3; Jonah 4:1-3).God did not call another prophet to deliver His message and let Jonah off the hook. He caused a violent storm to come up that threatened to break apart the ship. The crew feared for their lives as they prayed to their gods for help and threw cargo overboard. Where was Jonah - was he helping the crew? Not even close; he was found sound asleep in the bottom of the ship by the captain! Astounded, the captain shouted for Jonah to get up and pray to his god to spare their lives. (\"Jonah:1:4-6\"). The crew cast lots and determined that all of this was happening because of Jonah. They then demanded he tell them who he was. (Jonah 1:7-8). \"Jonah answered, \"I am a Hebrew, and I worship the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the land.\" (Jonah 1:9). Jonah then told the crew to throw him overboard and the sea would become calm. The sailors eventually did throw Jonah overboard and the sea calmed at once. God used Jonah's rebellion for His glory. The sailors were awestruck by God's power and vowed to serve Him! (\"Jonah:1:12-16\"). So, was this the end of Jonah? No; God sent a great fish to swallow Jonah and he remained in its belly for three days and nights. (Jonah 1:17). Kept alive inside the large sea creature, Jonah prayed to God and recounted his rebellious adventure. Jonah then promised to do as God had said and thanked Him for his salvation. \"But I will offer sacrifices to you with songs of praise, and I will fulfill all my vows. For my salvation comes from the Lord alone.\" Then the Lord ordered the fish to spit Jonah out onto the beach.\" (\"Jonah:2:1-10\"). God spoke to Jonah and told him to deliver the same message to Nineveh. This time Jonah obeyed God. Upon hearing Jonah's message, the people believed. They declared a fast and put on burlap to show their sorrow. The king removed his royal robes, dressed in burlap and sat in ashes to mourn. They repented of their evil ways and prayed that God would spare them from destruction. (\"Jonah:3:1-9\"). \"When God saw what they had done and how they had put a stop to their evil ways, He changed his mind and did not carry out the destruction He had threatened.\" (\"Jonah:3:10\"). How thrilled Jonah must have been for the entire city to believe and act upon his message! This was not the case with Jonah. He became even more angry and bitter after Nineveh turned from their evil ways. In fact, Jonah was so upset that he wished to die! We never read about Jonah repenting and seeking the good of the people of Nineveh. Jonah was angry with God and complained to Him for showing mercy toward the Ninevites (\"Jonah:4:1-3\"). The gentleness of God's rebuke should have reminded Jonah that He was not only gracious to the Ninevites but also to Jonah. While the Ninevites stopped sinning and told God they were sorry, Jonah did not. (\"Jonah:4:4-10\"). Some people think that the story of Jonah and the big fish is only a fairy tale to teach a lesson. But Jesus compared himself to the prophet Jonah, showing that he existed and that the story was historically accurate. (\"Matthew:12:38-41\").", "profile life lessons": "Don't desire that people have bad things happen to them because of their sin.", "profile key scripture": "Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from inside the fish."
"profile name": "Nineveh", "profile description": "Nineveh was a great city so large that it took three days to see it all! God sent His prophet Jonah to the city to warn of His coming judgment for all of their evil and violence. Jonah's message to the Ninevites was simple: \"Forty days from now Nineveh will be destroyed!\" The king and all of the people of Nineveh believed Jonah's message. They called a fast, put on sackcloth, even the animals! The city cried out to God for mercy. God saw all they did and changed His mind; Nineveh was saved!", "profile bible infoscan": "Nineveh was one of the oldest and greatest cities in the ancient world. The area was settled as early as 6000 BC and by 3000 BC had become an important religious center for worship of the Assyrian goddess Ishtar. Nineveh was described in the Book of Jonah as \"a great city\". (\"Jonah:1:2\"). It was the capital of the Assyrian Empire from 705 to 612 BC and located on the east bank of the Tigris River; modern day Iraq. Nineveh was established by Nimrod, a descendant of Noah, after the flood. (\"Genesis:10:9-12\"). The book of Jonah describes Nineveh as being so large that it took three days to see it all (\"Jonah:3:3\"). This description matches the size of the ruins of ancient Nineveh. It was a magnificent city lined with wide boulevards, large parks and gardens. Canals and aqueducts collected water from the hills about thirty miles away. There were eighteen canals designed to carry water to as many as 150,000 people who lived in Nineveh. Nineveh was also a walled and heavily gated city. It is estimated that the perimeter of Nineveh's wall was 7.5 miles long and 148 feet high in certain spots. There were fifteen gates that connected these city walls. Each of these gates was named after an Assyrian god. Jonah's message to the Ninevites was simple: \"Forty days from now Nineveh will be destroyed!\" (\"Jonah:3:4\"). The people of Nineveh believed Jonah's message. They called a fast and put on sackcloth, from the poor people to the rich and powerful. By the time word reached the king, much of the city had already repented. The king also believed Jonah's warning too. He removed his royal robes and put on mourning clothes. He then made a decree for all of Nineveh to fast and pray to God for mercy. Both men and animals were to be covered with sackcloth. All of the people were to cease from their wicked and violent ways. God saw all that they had done and changed His mind! He spared the city from judgment. It seems everyone except Jonah was happy. God told Jonah that He was showing pity for the people who did not know the difference between right and wrong (Jonah 3: 5-10; 4:11). In May of 612, the city was captured by the Medes and Babylonians during a three-month siege. Most of the people in the city were killed or made to be slaves. The Jewish prophet Nahum described the destruction and overthrow of Nineveh in \"Nahum:3:7\" .", "profile life lessons": "Love our enemies and pray that they will come to know him.", "profile key scripture": "\"Get up and go to the great city of Nineveh. Announce my judgment against it because I have seen how wicked its people are.\""
"profile name": "Samaritans", "profile description": "The Samaritans are an ethno-religious group of the Holy Land, descended from ancient Semitic inhabitants of the region. The Samaritans follow Samaritanism, an Abrahamic religion, most closely related to Judaism.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Samaritans were people who lived in the Northern Kingdom of Israel. The Kingdom of Israel was split in two after the death of Solomon. Samaria eventually became the capital of the Northern Kingdom of Israel. Jerusalem was the capital of the Southern Kingdom of Judah. The Samaritans claim they descended from the Northern Israelite tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh. These were the two sons of Joseph. When the Assyrians conquered Samaria, they sent pagan people to occupy the land. The result was a mixture of faiths and beliefs. Some of the people followed the Law of Moses and worshiped Jehovah God. Others worshiped false gods and idols. Then there were also those who mixed both together! The Samaritans who did not worship idols also came up with their own version of worship. They only followed the first five books of the Old Testament called the Pentateuch. These books are Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. They rejected the rest of the Old Testament books. They also made their own modifications to the Torah, which is the Law of Moses. Additionally, many of the Jews intermarried with the pagans. When the Temple was destroyed in Jerusalem by the Babylonians, Nehemiah refused to let the Samaritans help to rebuild it. The Samaritans then built their own Temple for worship on Mt.Gerizim. (\"2 Kings:17:5\") (\"Ezra:4:17\"). These are some of the main reasons that the Samaritan people were hated. They were considered to be impure, unclean, and half breeds by the Jews. During Jesus' time on earth, the hostility between the two groups was common. Jewish people would often bypass Samaria as they traveled between Galilee and Judea. This took them many miles out of their way! Jesus chose to travel directly through Samaria on His way to Galilee. There He talked with a Samaritan woman at a well. (\"John:4:4\"). In John 4:9, the Samaritan woman replied to Jesus's request for a drink of water. \"The woman was surprised, for Jews refuse to have anything to do with Samaritans. She said to Jesus, \"You are a Jew, and I am a Samaritan woman. Why are you asking me for a drink?\" She also told Jesus in John 4:19: \"Sir,\" the woman said, \"You must be a prophet. So tell me, why is it that you Jews insist that Jerusalem is the only place of worship, while we Samaritans claim it is here at Mount Gerizim, where our ancestors worshiped?\" The Samaritans believed that Mount Gerizim was the original Holy Place of the Israelites. (\"Deuteronomy:11:29\"). Jesus declared to the Samaritan woman that soon the location of worship would not matter. All people would worship together in spirit and in truth, regardless of their differences. (\"John:4:21\"). Because of the woman's witness, the people in her town begged Jesus to stay and teach them. Jesus stayed for two days and many became believers! They declared Him to be the Savior of the world! (John 4:39-42). Jesus told His disciples to look around and see the fields ripe for harvesting. The fields represented the Samaritans and all people of the world. Anyone whose heart was open to hear the Gospel! (\"John:4:27\"). In another example, some Samaritans did not welcome Jesus into their village. The reason was that He was on His way to Jerusalem! In response, James and John asked Jesus if they could call down fire from heaven to burn them up. Jesus rebuked them! (Luke 9:51-56). In another story, some Jewish people were upset with Jesus. He told them they were sinners even though they were descendants of Abraham. They tried to insult Jesus by calling him a Samaritan. \"The people retorted, \"You Samaritan devil! Didn't we say all along that you were possessed by a demon?\" (John 8:48). Jesus modeled and taught that the Samaritans were not to be treated as second class citizens. He came to forgive, heal, and save them too! In Jesus' parable of the Good Samaritan, Jesus shocked the scribe. Jesus made a Samaritan the example for us to follow in showing love to our neighbor - even to an enemy! In the parable, the Samaritan displayed God's love and mercy to an injured Jewish man. This was in contrast to a Jewish priest and a Levite Temple assistant who passed him by! Jesus then told the scribe to show that same kind of mercy to others. (Luke 10:25-37). In Luke 17:11-19, Jesus encountered ten lepers between Galilee and Samaria. He healed all of them, yet only one came back to thank Him. The Bible tells us that the man who returned was a Samaritan! Yes, Jesus modeled to His disciples that the Gospel was for the Samaritans as well as the Jews. In Acts 1:8, Jesus told His disciples that He would give them help to take the Gospel to all people. This included the Samaritans! \"But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere - Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.\" After Jesus' left earth, the apostles were active and obedient to Jesus' command. They indeed ministered to the Samaritan people! (\"Acts:8:5\").", "profile life lessons": "Show mercy to others; even our enemies.", "profile key scripture": "\"Going over to him, the Samaritan soothed his wounds with olive oil and wine and bandaged them.\""
"profile name": "The Tabernacle", "profile description": "The Tabernacle was the portable dwelling place for the divine presence of God and the Ark of the Covenant from the time of the Exodus from Egypt through the conquering of the land of Canaan. Built to specifications revealed by Yahweh to Moses at Mount Sinai, it accompanied the Israelites on their wanderings in the wilderness and their conquest of the Promised Land.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Tabernacle was the portable dwelling place for the divine presence of God and the Ark of the Covenant from the time of the Exodus from Egypt through the conquering of the land of Canaan. Built to specifications revealed by Yahweh to Moses at Mount Sinai, it accompanied the Israelites on their wanderings in the wilderness and their conquest of the Promised Land. There is no mention of the Tabernacle in the Bible after the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple by the Babylonians in 587 BC. Within the Tabernacle was the Holy of Holies, housing the Ark of the Covenant, and an outer chamber called the Holy Place, with a golden lampstand, table for showbread, and the altar of incense. The English word \"tabernacle\" is derived from the Latin tabernaculum meaning \"tent\" or \"hut,\" which in ancient Roman religion was a ritual structure. The word sanctuary is also used for the Biblical tabernacle, as well as the phrase the \"tent of meeting.\" The commandments for construction of the Tabernacle are taken from the words in the Book of Exodus when God says to Moses: Have the people of Israel build me a holy sanctuary so I can live among them. You must build this Tabernacle and its furnishings exactly according to the pattern I will show you. (\"Exodus:25:8-9\") The more detailed description of a tabernacle is in (\"Exodus:25:1\") and (\"Exodus:35:1\"), which describes the Holy of Holies housing the Ark and the outer chamber, or Holy Place, with a seven-branched lampstand, table for showbread, and altar of incense. An enclosure containing the sacrificial altar surrounded these chambers. There was a set of strict rules to be followed for the Tabernacle set on the Old Testament. For example: \"For the LORD had said to Moses, 'Exempt the tribe of Levi from the census; do not include them when you count the rest of the Israelites. You must put the Levites in charge of the Tabernacle of the Covenant, along with its furnishings and equipment. They must carry the Tabernacle and its equipment as you travel, and they must care for it and camp around it. Whenever the Tabernacle is moved, the Levites will take it down and set it up again. Anyone else who goes too near the Tabernacle will be executed.'\" (Numbers 1:48-51) (\"Numbers:1:48-51\") Speaking of the Tabernacle, the great Jewish historian, Josephus wrote: \"...and great was the surprise of those who viewed these curtains at a distance, for they seemed not at all to differ from the color of the sky\" - Josephus (94 A.D.) Inside, the enclosure was divided into two areas, the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place, which were separated by a curtain. Inside the first area were the seven-branched oil lampstand on the left (south), a table for twelve loaves of show bread on the right (north) and the Altar of Incense (west), straight ahead before the dividing curtain. Beyond this curtain was the cube-shaped inner room known as the \"Holy of Holies,\" which housed the Ark of the Covenant. Inside the Ark were the two stone tablets brought down from Mount Sinai by Moses on which were written the Ten Commandments, a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's rod that budded and bore ripe almonds. (\"Hebrews:9:2-5\") The Tabernacle remained the dwelling place for God's presence until the Temple of Solomon was built in the 10th Century, B.C", "profile life lessons": "God calls us to a life of holiness.", "profile key scripture": "Samuel was sleeping in the Tabernacle near the Ark of God."
"profile name": "Sea of Galilee", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "In the Bible, the Sea of Galilee is referred to by four different names: the Sea of Chinnereth or Kinnereth (\"Numbers:34:11\" , \"Joshua:12:3\" , \"Joshua:13:27\"), the Lake of Gennesaret (\"Luke:5:1\"), the Sea of Tiberias (\"John:6:1\" , \"John:21:1\"), and the Sea of Galilee (\"Matthew:4:18\" , \"Mark:1:16\"). The Sea of Galilee is a fresh water lake that is fed by the Jordan River in the north. It is situated about 60 miles north of Jerusalem, and, because it is the deepest part of the northern Jordan Rift, the water collects there before flowing south into the Dead Sea. The surface of the Sea of Galilee is about 700 feet (230 meters) below the Mediterranean Sea -- and the floor of the lake is about 80 to 160 feet lower. The lake is about 13 miles long and eight miles wide at Magdala, the point where it is the widest. Except on the southern side, the lake is surrounded by steep cliffs and sharply rising mountains. On the east, the mountains rise to the Golan Heights and the fertile Hauran plateau, which reaches a height of 2,700 feet. This geographical formation often causes cool winds to rush down the slopes, causing sudden, violent storms on the warm surface of the lake. The high waves that result are like those that Jesus calmed (\"Mark:4:35-41\"). Jesus' earthly ministry was closely connected to the Sea of Galilee. The first disciples He called were part of the thriving fishing industry there: Simon Peter, Andrew, James, and John (\"Mark:1:16-20\"). On and around the Sea of Galilee, Jesus performed 18 of His 33 recorded miracles and spoke most of His teachings to His disciples and the crowds that followed Him. The Sea of Galilee is sometimes used as an illustration for how one should receive but also give and bless others in order to be \"living\" and not \"dead\" like the Dead Sea. Because the Sea of Galilee receives fresh water which then flows out into the Dead Sea, it is alive with fish and other creatures. The Dead Sea has no exit and is the lowest point on earth. It is also called the Salt Sea as a result of the high concentration of salt. It is not a favorable environment for animal life. In this regard, it is a \"Dead Sea.\"", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "One day, as Jesus was walking along the shore of the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon (Peter) and his brother Andrew throwing a net into the water (for they fished for a living). Jesus called out to them, \"Come, follow me, and I will show you how to fish for people!\""
"profile name": "Shepherds", "profile description": "These folks were an unlikely choice for God to reveal His Son to, but the shepherds gladly left their sheep to meet the Lamb of God.", "profile bible infoscan": "The shepherds were an unlikely choice for God to first announce the birth of His Son. They were staying in the fields, guarding their flocks of sheep against thieves and wild animals. These shepherds outside Bethlehem may have been the ones who supplied the lambs for the Temple sacrifices that were performed for the forgiveness of sins. The angel invited the shepherds to meet Jesus, the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the whole world forever (\"John:1:36\").", "profile life lessons": "Don't let your emotions (such as fear) prevent you from hearing God's message.", "profile key scripture": "\"When the angels had returned to heaven, the shepherds said to each other, 'Come on, let's go to Bethlehem! Let's see this wonderful thing that has happened which the Lord has told us about.'\""
"profile name": "Elizabeth", "profile description": "In Hebrew, Elizabeth means \"My God has sworn.\" Elizabeth was the wife of Zacharias, and one \"of the daughters of Aaron.\" She and her husband Zacharias were \"righteous before God and blameless in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord. Yet they were childless. ", "profile bible infoscan": "Elizabeth was married to a Jewish priest named Zechariah. She was also the cousin of Mary, the mother of Jesus. Elizabeth came from the priestly line of Aaron. Elizabeth and Zechariah were unable to have children and they were very old. This meant that they would be childless without a miracle from God. This was unfortunate because we find out that Elizabeth and Zechariah prayed for children; most likely for many of their younger years. \"But the angel said, \"Don't be afraid, Zechariah! God has heard your prayer. Your wife, Elizabeth, will give you a son, and you are to name him John.\" (\"Luke:1:13\") The Good News is that God did hear their prayers and He was about to give them a miracle birth of a son! Elizabeth soon became pregnant and she joyously praised, \"How kind the Lord is!\" she exclaimed. \"He has taken away my disgrace of having no children.\" (\"Luke:1:24\"). In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to her cousin, Mary. Mary would have a son too; in fact, she would give birth to the Son of the Most High - Jesus! (Luke 1:26-33). A few days after Gabriel's visit, Mary hurried to Zechariah's house to see her cousin Elizabeth. When Mary greeted Elizabeth, her child leaped within her and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit! Elizabeth gave a glad cry and told Mary that her child was blessed and that Mary was blessed because she believed the Lord would do what He said! Mary responded with a song of praise to God - rejoicing in all He was doing within them. Mary stayed with Elizabeth about three months before she returned home. How loving and kind for God to allow the two women to share the excitement of their pregnancy and miracle sons together! (\"Luke:1:39\"). When Elizabeth gave birth to her son, her neighbors and relatives rejoiced with her because of God's mercy. Everyone expected the baby to be named after his father, Zechariah. Elizabeth declared that the baby's name would instead be John. Zechariah agreed with his wife and wrote on a tablet that his name was John. They did this in obedience to God's command that was brought by Gabriel to Zechariah in the Temple. Everyone was filled with awe and knew that the hand of God was upon her son John in a special way!", "profile life lessons": "Like Elizabeth, age doesn't matter, you can do amazing things for God", "profile key scripture": "When I heard your greeting, the baby in my womb jumped for joy."
"profile name": "Mordecai", "profile description": "Mordecai refused to bow down to Haman. Enraged, Haman plotted to destroy Mordecai. After the truth of this came to light, Haman's plot backfired. The King took the signet ring from Haman and gave it to Mordecai.", "profile bible infoscan": "Who was Mordecai, the man of God so instrumental in the book of Esther? \"Esther:2:5-6\" gives us some answers about his background. \"At that time there was a Jewish man in the fortress of Susa whose name was Mordecai son of Jair. He was from the tribe of Benjamin and was a descendant of Kish and Shimei. His family had been among those who, with King Jehoiachin of Judah, had been exiled from Jerusalem to Babylon by King Nebuchadnezzar.\" Mordecai had become a palace official who served King Xerxes. (\"Esther:2:19\"). He was also secretly the cousin of Queen Esther who he adopted and raised as his own daughter when her parents died. (\"Esther:2:7\"). When Esther was brought to the king's palace, Mordecai instructed her to tell no one of her nationality and family background. \"Esther:2:11\" says, \"Every day Mordecai would take a walk near the courtyard of the harem to find out about Esther and what was happening to her.\" Even after Esther became queen, she followed Mordecai's directions and told no one of her secret. (\"Esther:2:19\") One day while sitting at the king's gates, Mordecai heard two of the king's guards plotting to kill the king. Mordecai told Queen Esther, who warned the king and gave Mordecai all of the credit for the information. The plot was foiled! (\"Esther:2:21-23\"). Later, the king promoted Haman the Agagite to a high position within the government and ordered all the people to bow down to Haman when he passed by. Everyone obeyed except for Mordecai. He refused to show respect for Haman, even when the palace officials questioned him daily about it. This filled Haman with rage and he plotted to not only kill Mordecai, but all of the Jews! (\"Esther:3:5-15\"). Word of the evil plan reached Mordecai. \"When Mordecai learned about all that had been done, he tore his clothes, put on burlap and ashes, and went out into the city, crying with a loud and bitter wail. He went as far as the gate of the palace, for no one was allowed to enter the palace gate while wearing clothes of mourning.\" Mordecai sent a copy of the decree to Queen Esther and told her she must go to the king to save her people. \"Mordecai sent this reply to Esther: \"Don't think for a moment that because you're in the palace you will escape when all other Jews are killed. If you keep quiet at a time like this, deliverance and relief for the Jews will arise from some other place, but you and your relatives will die. Who knows if perhaps you were made queen for just such a time as this?\" (\"Esther:4:13-14\"). Esther determined to risk her life and go to the king. Before going, she asked Mordecai to gather all of the Jews to fast for her for three days. Then, she would go see the king even if it meant she must die! Mordecai did all that the queen asked. (\"Esther:4:10-17\"). One night the king could not sleep. He had an attendant read a book to him about the history of his reign. The king discovered that Mordecai had saved his life by reporting the plot to assassinate him. When the king learned that Mordecai was never rewarded, he asked Haman's advice about how he should honor a person that pleased the king. Haman believed that the king was referring to him, not Mordecai his enemy! Haman told the king to appoint one of his most trusted officials to dress the honored man in the king's royal robes. Then have the official parade him around town on the king's horse with the royal emblem on it. And, as he led the honored man around, he would shout, \"This is what the king does for someone he wished to honor.\" Haman was shocked when the king told him to go do all he suggested for Mordecai! After leading Mordecai around the city, Haman returned home humiliated and depressed. (\"Esther:6:1-14\"). That same night, Haman was taken to the palace for the queen's second banquet. There, Esther cleverly exposed Haman's evil plot and her nationality at the same time. This was not a good day for Haman! The king realized that Haman's evil plot would destroy his queen too! The king was enraged and ordered Haman to be hanged on the same gallows he had just built to hang Mordecai! Haman's plan had definitely backfired! (Esther 7). Mordecai was brought before the king after Esther revealed that they were relatives. The king took off his signet ring and gave it to Mordecai. He was also put in charge of Haman's property. Then Esther begged the king to stop the evil plot devised by Haman against the Jews. King Xerxes said to Queen Esther and Mordecai, \"Send a message to the Jews in the king's name, telling them whatever you want, and seal it with the king's signet ring\" (\"Esther:8:9-10\"). Mordecai sent the decree to the Jews in every city. The decree gave them the authority to unite and defend their lives. (\"Esther:8:1-11\"). \"Then Mordecai left the king's presence, wearing the royal robe of blue and white, the great crown of gold, and an outer cloak of fine linen and purple. And the people of Susa celebrated the new decree. The Jews were filled with joy and gladness and were honored everywhere. In every province and city, wherever the king's decree arrived, the Jews rejoiced and had a great celebration and declared a public festival and holiday.\" (Esther 8:15-17). When the time came, the Jews defeated their enemies. Esther 9: 2-4 says, \"The Jews gathered in their cities throughout all the king's provinces to attack anyone who tried to harm them. But no one could make a stand against them, for everyone was afraid of them. And all the nobles of the provinces, the highest officers, the governors, and the royal officials helped the Jews for fear of Mordecai. For Mordecai had been promoted in the king's palace, and his fame spread throughout all the provinces as he became more and more powerful.\" How amazing is the favor and plan of God for His people. He completely turned around a disastrous situation and gave His people victory instead. Esther 10:3 says, \"Mordecai the Jew became the prime minister, with authority next to that of King Xerxes himself. He was very great among the Jews, who held him in high esteem, because he continued to work for the good of his people and to speak up for the welfare of all their descendants.\" In memory of all that God had done for them, Mordecai proposed that the Jews celebrate the feast of Purim, or \"Lots,\" every year for two days. This was named for the \"lots\" that were cast by Haman to decide the date he would carry out his evil plot against the Jewish people in Persia. The people accepted the celebration of Purim decreed by Queen Esther and Mordecai and is still celebrated today. (Esther 9:20-32). In Esther 2:5-6, Mordecai is listed as a descendant of Kish of the tribe of Benjamin. Kish was the name of King Saul's father. The Talmud also lists Mordecai as a descendant of Saul, the first King of Israel. It is ironic that Mordecai is used to bring about Haman's downfall. Yet Saul, Mordecai's ancestor, allowed Haman's family line, the Amalekites, to continue when he disobeyed God's command to completely destroy them. This brought about Saul's downfall - God rejected him as king!", "profile life lessons": "God will always bless you for pouring your life into others as a mentor and teacher.", "profile key scripture": "The king took off his signet ring - which he had taken back from Haman - and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther appointed Mordecai to be in charge of Haman's property."
"profile name": "Plagues", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "When God wanted His people freed from slavery in Egypt, He sent ten plagues as a warning and a punishment (\"Exodus:9:14\"). First, the water of the Nile River was turned into blood (\"Exodus:7:16\"). Epidemics of frogs, lice, flies, boils, hail, diseases of livestock, hail, locusts, and, finally, the death of all the firstborn in Egypt followed. The plagues were sometimes miraculous events, and at other times, they appeared as natural phenomena. But they always showed God's power and His acts to punish sin and disobedience. The ten plagues also represented God's challenge to the Egyptian religious system with their many gods such as Ra, the sun-god (e.g. the plague of darkness).", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "I will bring down my fist on Egypt. Then I will rescue my forces - my people, the Israelites - from the land of Egypt with great acts of judgment."
"profile name": "Jerusalem Wall", "profile description": "The Jerusalem wall was in ruins and the gates destroyed by fire. Nehemiah returned to Jerusalem to rebuild the walls. God gave them success and the walls were rebuilt in only fifty two days! This was an important sign to Israel's enemies that God was with His people! At the dedication ceremony, men, women, and children celebrated what God had done. The joy of the people could be heard far away.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Jerusalem wall surrounded the city and had several gates. It offered protection and safety to those who lived inside. The wall was now broken down and the gates destroyed by fire. The people were in great trouble and disgrace.This is the message brought to Nehemiah in Persia from his brother that had traveled from Judah (\"Nehemiah:1:3\"). The Jewish people had rebuilt the Temple under the leadership of Zerubbabel. (\"Ezra:2:2\"). Yet, without a city wall, they weren't protected against their enemies, thieves, or even wild animals. They sat exposed, disgraced, and defeated in their homeland. This was an important part of the \"trouble\" and disgrace\" that Hanani described. So, what could Nehemiah, the king's cupbearer do about this sad situation? Nehemiah prayed for four months. He then asked King Artaxerxes for permission to return to Judah to repair the walls. God's hand was on Nehemiah and the king agreed to the request. The king also wrote a letter to Asaph, the manager of the king's forest. He told him to give Nehemiah the timber he needed for the project (\"Nehemiah:2:8\"). Rebuilding the walls was an important sign to the enemies of Israel that their God was with them! Nehemiah told them that the God of heaven would give them success! (\"Nehemiah:2:20\"). Nehemiah organized the work in great detail. He used everyone! The workers included families, priests, high priests, merchants, goldsmiths, gatekeepers, and leaders. The people had many different skills and abilities. (Nehemiah 3). The project faced opposition from Sanballat and Tobiah. They mocked the workers and tried to humiliate and discourage them. They called attention to the rubble and charred stone blocks left over from the damaged wall. Nehemiah did not have the time or resources to get new stones to size and finish. The workers needed to use the original stones that were burned and damaged. Tobiah jeered that if a fox walked across the wall it would collapse because it was so weak. (\"Nehemiah:4:3\"). This was not true. Archaeologists found that Nehemiah's walls were in fact, nine feet thick! The wall progressed and Sanballat and Tobiah became more angry. They made plans to attack Jerusalem. Nehemiah placed guards around the walls. He stationed people with weapons to guard families while they worked. The workers used one hand to work and one hand to hold a weapon! God's people continued to labor from sunrise to sunset. Nehemiah told the people not to be afraid; God would protect them! (\"Nehemiah:4:4\"). On October 2 - the wall was finished in only fifty two days! It is estimated that the length of the wall covered 1.5 miles. What an amazing testimony to Nehemiah's leadership and determination combined with God's help! \"When our enemies and the surrounding nations heard about it, they were frightened and humiliated. They realized this work had been done with the help of our God.\" (\"Nehemiah:6:15\"). It was now time to dedicate the temple and to celebrate all that was accomplished with God's favor and power! The priests and Levites purified themselves. Then they purified the people, the gates, and the wall. Nehemiah, Ezra, other leaders, and priests, led the people around the top of the wall. This was a joyful occasion as the choir sang, and the musicians made music to the Lord. (\"Nehemiah:12:27\"). \"Many sacrifices were offered on that joyous day, for God had given the people cause for great joy. The women and children also participated in the celebration, and the joy of the people of Jerusalem could be heard far away.\" (\"Nehemiah:12:43\")", "profile life lessons": "Lay a stong foundation and be careful how you build on it.", "profile key scripture": "The wall was finished - just fifty-two days after we had begun."
"profile name": "Eliphaz, Bildad, Zophar", "profile description": "Three of Job's friends, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar, come to visit him, sitting with Job in silence for seven days out of respect for his mourning. On the seventh day, Job speaks, beginning a conversation in which each of the four men share their thoughts on Job's afflictions. These three so-called friends gathered to comfort Job, but they ended up ranting and judging him. Job needed encouragement, but he got condemnation.", "profile bible infoscan": "Job had three friends named Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar who traveled to see him when they heard of his tragedy and hardships. The hardly recognized Job when they saw him from a distance. The men then showed their grief by wailing loudly, tearing their robes, and throwing dust over their heads. Their original intent was good to come and console him. (\"Job:2:11-12\"). And, in the beginning of their visit, they acted as loyal and compassionate friends. \"Then they sat on the ground with him for seven days and nights. No one said a word to Job, for they saw that his suffering was too great for words.\" (\"Job:2:13\"). Then, they opened their mouths and things changed drastically. The old saying, \"With friends like these, who needs enemies\" certainly seems to apply here! The three men believed that Job's circumstances were because of sin and he was rightfully being punished by God. They assumed to know Job's intentions, but only God knows the heart - and only God knows all the facts. Instead of giving advice, they falsely judged Job's heart - and that is sin. Job's friends said some good things - but they didn't ring true because they were delivered in a spirit of condemnation. They were wise one minute and completely foolish and self-righteous the next. The three men spoke with pride in a tone of moral superiority. Job was understandably frustrated by this rebuke. He was not only wounded by the tragic events, but then he was further wounded by being told that his trials were his fault. God was angered at Job's friends because they misrepresented him completely. They were wrong in their conclusions that man must do things to earn God's favor, and, therefore, suffering is a sign of God's displeasure. Job became so irritated with his friends that he said: \"I have heard all this before. What miserable comforters you are! Won't you ever stop blowing hot air? What makes you keep on talking? I could say the same things if you were in my place. I could spout off criticism and shake my head at you. But if it were me, I would encourage you. I would try to take away your grief. Instead, I suffer if I defend myself, and I suffer no less if I refuse to speak.\" (\"Job:16:2-6\"). Job and God had a lengthy conversation and Job repented. (Job 38-42). Then, God turned His attention to Job's three friends and expressed His displeasure with them. \"After the Lord had finished speaking to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Temanite: \"I am angry with you and your two friends, for you have not spoken accurately about Me, as my servant Job has. So take seven bulls and seven rams and go to My servant Job and offer a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job will pray for you, and I will accept his prayer on your behalf. I will not treat you as you deserve, for you have not spoken accurately about Me, as My servant Job has. So Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite did as the Lord commanded them, and the Lord accepted Job's prayer. When Job prayed for his friends, the Lord restored his fortunes. In fact, the Lord gave him twice as much as before!\" (\"Job:42:7-10\").", "profile life lessons": "Faith is trust God in all things and never giving up.", "profile key scripture": "After the Lord had finished speaking to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Temanite: \"I am angry with you and your two friends, for you have not spoken accurately about me, as my servant Job has.\""
"profile name": "Casting Lots", "profile description": "The sailors cast lots to see who had caused the terrible storm. The lots accurately identified Jonah as the culprit! Jonah admitted that he was a runaway from God. He was thrown into the sea and the storm immediately calmed.", "profile bible infoscan": "In ancient times, the practice of casting lots was used to make impartial decisions on important matters. Once cast or thrown, no one could argue with the results. Modern equivalents to casting lots would be throwing dice or flipping a coin. The practice of casting lots is mentioned seventy times in the Old Testament and seven times in the New Testament. Different objects were used to cast lots, depending on the location and customs, such as polished sticks, coins, cards, dice, etc. In the story of Jonah, the sailors cast lots to determine who was guilty of bringing a violent storm on the sea that threatened their very lives! \"Then the crew cast lots to see which of them had offended the gods and caused the terrible storm. When they did this, the lots identified Jonah as the culprit.\" An interesting fact is that in ancient Israel, the High Priest cast lots for important, uncertain decisions. It was part of the process of consulting God for the answer: This is the case when Zechariah the priest, father of John the Baptist, was chosen by lots to burn incense in the Temple. (\"Luke:1:8-9\"). Casting Lots is actually remembered by the Jewish people in the Feast of Purim. The word Purim means \"Lots\". The evil Haman cast lots in \"Esther:3:7\" to determine the best day to carry out his plan to destroy the Jewish people. The feast celebrates how Haman's evil plan was defeated by God and Queen Esther. In the New Testament, the soldiers cast lots for Jesus' clothes at His crucifixion. (\"John:19:23-24\"). The last time that casting lots is mentioned in the Bible was when the apostles asked God for direction in choosing between two people to replace Judas. (\"Acts:1:24-26\"). In our day, there isn't a need for casting lots. We are instructed to use the Bible, prayer and the indwelling Holy Spirit for guidance to make important choices and decisions. (\"1 Corinthians:2:13-16\").", "profile life lessons": "The Holy Spirit is our guide.", "profile key scripture": "Then the crew cast lots to see which of them had offended the gods and caused the terrible storm. When they did this, the lots identified Jonah as the culprit."
"profile name": "Heaven", "profile description": "The word \"heavens\" is used in the Bible to refer to the sky, the expanse over the earth (\"Genesis:1:8\"), but heaven is also the place where God \"dwells\" or lives (\"Genesis:28:17\" , \"Revelation:12:7-8\"). It is God's beautiful home filled with joy, glory, and light.", "profile bible infoscan": "The word \"heavens\" is used in the Bible to refer to the sky, the expanse over the earth (\"Genesis:1:8\"), but heaven is also the place where God \"dwells\" or lives (\"Genesis:28:17\" , \"Revelation:12:7-8\"). It is God's beautiful home filled with joy, glory, and light. In the Lord's Prayer, we pray to \"our Father in heaven\" (\"Matthew:6:9\"). We do not know where heaven is exactly, but we do know it is the place where Christians will be with God and where everything is perfect. Jesus went there after He was raised from the dead, and He is preparing a place there for everyone who believes in Him (\"John:14:2\"). We do not know what heaven looks like, but in the Book of Revelation, John uses \"picture\" language to describe heaven and help us understand how amazing it is. We do know three great things about heaven: Heaven is forever: \"...everyone who believes in him [Jesus] will not perish but have eternal life\" (\"John:3:16\"). God is there with us: \"God's home is now among his people!\" (\"Revelation:21:3\"). There is no more death, sadness or pain: \"He [God] will wipe every tear from their eyes\" (\"Revelation:21:4\"). ", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Don't let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God, and trust also in me. There is more than enough room in my Father's home. If this were not so, would I have told you that I am going to prepare a place for you? When everything is ready, I will come and get you, so that you will always be with me where I am.\""
"profile name": "Moriah", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Moriah means \"Jehovah provides.\" It was the place where Abraham was told to offer up Isaac (\"Genesis:22:2\"). It was about three days' journey from Beersheba (the city where Abraham was living when God gave him the command). The mountains of the land of Moriah were visible from a great distance (\"Genesis:22:2-4\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Take your son, your only son - yes, Isaac, whom you love so much - and go to the land of Moriah. Go and sacrifice him as a burnt offering on one of the mountains, which I will show you.\""
"profile name": "Bethlehem", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Do you ever feel little? So little that nothing big can ever happen to you? Well, Bethlehem was a small town that ended up being home to the BIGGEST EVENT in history! Bethlehem is a town about five miles (8 km) south of Jerusalem in the district known as Ephrathah (\"Micah:5:2\"), a region known for its fertile hills and valleys. In the Old Testament, we read that Bethlehem was the burial place for Rachel, Jacob's wife (\"Genesis:35:19\"), and the home of Ruth. \"1 Samuel:17:12\" tells us that Bethlehem was the ancestral home of David (yep, THAT David - King David). The prophet Micah prophesied that Bethlehem would be the birthplace of the Messiah (\"Micah:5:2\" , \"Matthew:2:6\"). Jesus Christ, who is the \"Bread of Life\" (\"John:6:35\"), was born in Bethlehem, the City of David (\"Luke:2:11\"). This town's name means \"house of bread.\"", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"The Savior - yes, the Messiah, the Lord - has been born tonight in Bethlehem, the city of David!\""
"profile name": "Dream Interpretation", "profile description": "God gave Joseph the ability to interpret dreams. In jail, Joseph interpreted two dreams for fellow prisoners. When Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had two dreams that his wise men could not interpret, Joseph came to the rescue. By God's wisdom, Joseph interpreted the dreams and showed Pharaoh what God was about to do in the future.", "profile bible infoscan": "Joseph had two dreams from God. Both of these dreams came to pass. (\"Genesis:37:5-11\" ; \"Genesis:42:6\"). While in prison, Joseph was asked to interpret two dreams from fellow prisoners. Genesis 40:8 says, \"And they replied, \"We both had dreams last night, but no one can tell us what they mean.\" Interpreting dreams is God's business,\" Joseph replied. \"Go ahead and tell me your dreams.\" God gave Joseph the ability and he rightly gave God all the credit. Joseph's interpretations soon came true. (\"Genesis:40:9-23\"). Two years later, Joseph was asked by Pharaoh, the king of Egypt to interpret two dreams he had. None of his wise men could tell him the meaning. \"Genesis:41:14-16\" says, \"Pharaoh sent for Joseph at once, and he was quickly brought from the prison. After he shaved and changed his clothes, he went in and stood before Pharaoh. Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, \"I had a dream last night, and no one here can tell me what it means. But I have heard that when you hear about a dream you can interpret it.\" \"It is beyond my power to do this,\" Joseph replied. \"But God can tell you what it means and set you at ease.\" Again, Joseph would not take any credit for his ability to interpret dreams. The gift of wisdom and knowledge was all from God. \"Joseph's suggestions were well received by Pharaoh and his officials. So Pharaoh asked his officials, \"Can we find anyone else like this man so obviously filled with the spirit of God?\" Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, \"Since God has revealed the meaning of the dreams to you, clearly no one else is as intelligent or wise as you are.\" Joseph humbly gave God the credit and he was promoted because of it. All Joseph said came to pass. (\"Genesis:41:47-54\"). Daniel had a special gift from God to interpret dreams and visions. (\"Daniel:1:17\"). He interpreted dreams for King Nebuchadnezzar (Daniel 2; Daniel 4). God still speaks to people in many different ways, including dreams. In \"Acts:2:17\" , the Apostle Peter quotes the prophet Joel from the Old Testament: \"In the last days, 'God says, 'I will pour out My Spirit upon all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams'\" This is still valid today. The Bible says in \"Job:33:14-15\" , \"For God speaks again and again, though people do not recognize it. He speaks in dreams, in visions of the night, when deep sleep falls on people as they lie in their beds.\" We must be cautious however, because not every dream is from God. As followers of Christ, we must test everything and ask the Holy Spirit to reveal the meaning of a message spoken, dreamt, or otherwise communicated that we believe may be from God. The apostle Paul says in \"1 Thessalonians:5:19-22\" says, \"Do not stifle the Holy Spirit. Do not scoff at prophecies, but test everything that is said. Hold on to what is good. Stay away from every kind of evil.\" The Holy Spirit lives in every believer and was sent by Jesus to be our helper and our guide. He will not steer us in the wrong direction! \"John:16:13\" says, \"When the Spirit of truth comes, He will guide you into all truth. He will not speak on His own but will tell you what He has heard. He will tell you about the future.\" \"John:10:27\" says, \"My sheep listen to My voice; I know them, and they follow Me.\" As Jesus' sheep, the Holy Spirit will help us discern and know His voice from others who would lead us astray. Joseph had it right when he said was spot on said, \"Interpreting dreams is God's business\" (\"Genesis:40:8\").", "profile life lessons": "God can reveal the future through dreams.", "profile key scripture": "\"It is beyond my power to do this,\" Joseph replied. \"But God can tell you what it means and set you at ease.\""
"profile name": "Scarlet Rope", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Rahab's declaration about God to the spies is proof of her faith. She saved them by dropping a rope through her window to allow them to escape. Rahab then put her faith into action by placing the scarlet cord in the window as she was instructed. (\"Joshua:2:8-21\"). This scarlet cord helped save Rahab and her family by showing Joshua's men where she lived. (\"Joshua:6:22\"). The scarlet cord guaranteed her deliverance from otherwise certain death - just as the blood of the lamb protected the Israelites in Egypt on the first Passover and the blood of Jesus brings salvation to all who place their faith in Him. (\"Exodus:12:21-23\"). The cord represents Jesus' blood that saves us and identifies us as God's children; cleansed, made righteous and forgiven through Christ and spared from God's judgment. (\"Romans:5:9\").", "profile life lessons": "We are saved from God's judgment by the blood of Jesus.", "profile key scripture": "\"I accept your terms,\" she replied. And she sent them on their way, leaving the scarlet rope hanging from the window."
"profile name": "Job", "profile description": "Job was a man tested beyond the normal limits of suffering. Throughout Job's plight, he possessed a profound ability to remain faithful to God through all sorts of adversity. In the end, God restored Job with twice as much as before.", "profile bible infoscan": "Job lived in the land of Uz and was a servant of God. He was blameless and a man of complete integrity. He feared God and stayed away from evil. He was also the finest man in all the earth! Who wouldn't want to be described this way? These are truly amazing words, and even more so - they are God's words, not man's words! (\"Job:1:8\"). Job was a blessed man. \"Job:1:3\" says, \"He owned 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 teams of oxen, and 500 female donkeys. He also had many servants. He was, in fact, the richest person in that entire area.\" Job deeply cared for his children. The Bible says that Job's kids would often throw parties and celebrate. \"When these celebrations ended - sometimes after several days - Job would purify his children. He would get up early in the morning and offer a burnt offering for each of them. For Job said to himself, \"Perhaps my children have sinned and have cursed God in their hearts.\" This was Job's regular practice.\" (\"Job:1:5\"). Then Satan challenged God, saying if God's wall of protection and his blessings were taken away, Job would turn away from God and curse Him. God allowed Satan to test Job as long as he didn't touch him physically. Satan wasted no time. Suddenly, Job lost his children, farmhands, shepherds, and servants. Only four messengers escaped. Then Job's oxen, donkeys, and camels were stolen and his sheep were burnt up. (\"Job:1:6-19\"). Job would not turn on God; even in his devastation and grief, he remained faithful to God. He did not blame Him and continued to praise His name! (\"Job:1:20-22\"). You might say Job got an A+ on the first test! Unfortunately, Satan wasn't done yet. He came before God a second time and said that Job would curse God if Satan took away his health. God allowed Satan to test Job a second time but again limited what he could do. \"All right, do with him as you please,\" the Lord said to Satan. \"But spare his life.\" So Satan left the Lord's presence, and he struck Job with terrible boils from head to foot.\" (\"Job:2:6-7\"). This time, Job's wife added insult to injury; she encouraged Job to give up on God and ev even take his own life! \"Job:2:9\" says, \"His wife said to him, \"Are you still trying to maintain your integrity? Curse God and die.\" Job would have none of it! Job 2:10 says, \"But Job replied, \"You talk like a foolish woman. Should we accept only good things from the hand of God and never anything bad?\" So in all this, Job said nothing wrong.\" As Job grieved, he was visited by three friends who came to comfort and console him. They could hardly recognize Job when they saw him at a distance. They sat in silence with Job for seven days and nights, seeing that his suffering was too great for words. (\"Job:2:11-13\"). Then, one by one the three friends began to judge and condemn Job. They believed Job's circumstances were because of sin and he was rightfully being punished by God. Job was understandably frustrated by this rebuke from his friends. He was not only wounded by the tragic events, but then he was further wounded by being told that his trials were his fault. God was angered at Job's friends because they misrepresented him completely. Job became so irritated with his friends that he said in \"Job:16:2-6\" : \"I have heard all this before. What miserable comforters you are! Won't you ever stop blowing hot air? What makes you keep on talking? I could say the same things if you were in my place. I could spout off criticism and shake my head at you. But if it were me, I would encourage you. I would try to take away your grief. Instead, I suffer if I defend myself, and I suffer no less if I refuse to speak.\" Job showed great faith and focus on God in the height of his suffering and refused to give up! \"\"Job:19:25-27\" declares in faith, \"But as for me, I know that my Redeemer lives, and He will stand upon the earth at last. And after my body has decayed, yet in my body I will see God! I will see Him for myself. Yes, I will see Him with my own eyes. I am overwhelmed at the thought!\" After Job's friends were done criticizing and advising Job, God breaks in and challenges Job from a whirlwind. (Job 38-41). Job is humbled by God's questions and presence, causing him to repent: \"I had only heard about you before, but now I have seen you with my own eyes. I take back everything I said, and I sit in dust and ashes to show my repentance.\" (\"Job:42:5-6\"). God then turned His attention to Job's three friends and expressed His displeasure with them. \"After the Lord had finished speaking to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Temanite: \"I am angry with you and your two friends, for you have not spoken accurately about Me, as my servant Job has. So take seven bulls and seven rams and go to My servant Job and offer a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job will pray for you, and I will accept his prayer on your behalf. I will not treat you as you deserve, for you have not spoken accurately about Me, as My servant Job has. So Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite did as the Lord commanded them, and the Lord accepted Job's prayer. When Job prayed for his friends, the Lord restored his fortunes. In fact, the Lord gave him twice as much as before!\" (\"Job:42:7-10\"). Job's brothers, sisters, and friends came and feasted with him and comforted him because of all he had been through. They brought gifts of money and gold rings to Job. The Lord blessed Job more in the second half of his life than in the beginning. Job also was blessed with seven more sons and three daughters. The daughters were lovelier than any women on the land. Job lived 140 more years and saw four generations of his children and grandchildren. He died after living a full life. (\"Job:42:11-17\").", "profile life lessons": "Even in the midst of trials and tragedies we need to praise God.", "profile key scripture": "I know that my Redeemer lives."
"profile name": "The Serpent", "profile description": "Talk about a crafty critter! The serpent in the Garden of Eden was quite the manipulative animal. The questions that he asked Eve made her question God's dominion over her and everything around her.", "profile bible infoscan": "Talk about a crafty critter! The serpent in the Garden of Eden was quite the manipulative animal. The things that he said to Eve made her question God's love, goodness, and dominion over her and everything around her. Through Satan using the serpent as his instrument of deception, Adam and Eve disobeyed God and ate from the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. Through this act, all of mankind was separated from God. God then cursed the serpent to crawl on its belly (it had legs before this event). God also said that there would be hostility between the offspring of the snake and that of humans. The curse also led to pain during childbirth, to hostility between humans and animals, and to the land not producing food without hard labor. It also made the plants change so that they grew thorns. So the serpent and Satan's actions towards mankind were very destructive through this deceptive act in Eden. But through the death and resurrection of God's Son, Jesus, we have good news that we can be connected back to God and have a relationship with Him for eternity.", "profile life lessons": "Temptation can be very attractive.", "profile key scripture": "The serpent was the shrewdest of all the wild animals the Lord God had made. One day he asked the woman, \"Did God really say you must not eat the fruit from any of the trees in the garden?\""
"profile name": "Faith", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Hebrews chapter 11 is called the \"hall of fame of faith.\" The first verse in that chapter tells us, \"Faith is the confidence that what we hope for will actually happen; it gives us assurance about things we cannot see\" (\"Hebrews:11:1\"). Later, in verse 6, the writer says, \"And it is impossible to please God without faith. Anyone who wants to come to him must believe that God exists and that he rewards those who sincerely seek him\" (\"Hebrews:11:6\"). Faith is the starting point of our relationship with God. We can't be saved without faith in Christ. Paul writes to the Romans, \"If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved\" (\"Romans:10:9\"). It is through believing in Jesus as our Lord and Savior that we are saved. So faith opens the door to our relationship with God through Jesus. But faith is also vital in our day-to-day walk with God. It is through faith that we receive God's direction, provision, protection, wisdom, authority, and blessing. Faith is a gift from God that comes to us like a mustard seed that needs to be nurtured, watered, and protected. If we keep our relationship with God a priority and remain in His Word, then our faith will grow, like a tiny mustard seed grows into a large tree. Scripture tells us, \"So faith comes from hearing, that is, hearing the Good News about Christ\" (\"Romans:10:17\"). It is vitally important to read the Word of God, to meditate on it, and to make it a part of our everyday lives. Jesus made it clear, \"You are truly my disciples if you remain faithful to my teachings\" (\"John:8:31\"). This is the condition to God's blessing that comes in the following verse: \"And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free\" (\"John:8:32\"). Jesus taught us that there is tremendous spiritual power for those who believe: \"I tell you the truth, you can say to this mountain, 'May you be lifted up and thrown into the sea,' and it will happen. But you must really believe it will happen and have no doubt in your heart. I tell you, you can pray for anything, and if you believe that you've received it, it will be yours\" (\"Mark:11:23-24\"). On the contrary, our spiritual authority can be hindered if we do not have enough faith - or if we have, as Jesus put it, \"little faith.\" When the disciples couldn't cast out a particular demon, they asked Jesus why. He answered, \"You don't have enough faith,\" Jesus told them. \"I tell you the truth, if you had faith even as small as a mustard seed, you could say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it would move. Nothing would be impossible\" (\"Matthew:17:20\"). Job was a man of faith. Even when tragedy struck him and he seemingly lost everything, he refused to turn away from his faith in God but instead continued to praise Him. \"I came naked from my mother's womb, and I will be naked when I leave. The Lord gave me what I had, and the Lord has taken it away. Praise the name of the Lord!\" (\"Job:1:21\"). Two times the Gospel writers said that Jesus was amazed. The first time was in his hometown: \"...because of their unbelief, he couldn't do any miracles among them except to place his hands on a few sick people and heal them\" (\"Mark:6:5\"). The second time Jesus was amazed was at the faith of the Roman Centurion: \"When Jesus heard this, he was amazed. Turning to those who were following him, he said, \"I tell you the truth, I haven't seen faith like this in all Israel!\" (\"Matthew:8:10\"). Let us ask God for the grace to believe Him and obey what He tells us to do so that Jesus will marvel at our faith, too!", "profile life lessons": "Faith is trusting God in all things and never giving up.", "profile key scripture": "Faith is the confidence that what we hope for will actually happen; it gives us assurance about things we cannot see."
"profile name": "The Ark", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "God called Noah to build an ark or large boat. The exact shape of the ark is not really known. It would seem that it would resemble a giant block shape. \"Genesis:6:14-16\" gives us a description of the ark. \"Build a large boat from cypress wood and waterproof it with tar, inside and out. Then construct decks and stalls throughout its interior. Make the boat 450 feet long, 75 feet wide, and 45 feet high. Leave an 18-inch opening below the roof all the way around the boat. Put the door on the side, and build three decks inside the boat - lower, middle, and upper.\" The Hebrew word for the ark, \"teba,\" occurs twice in the Bible. It is used for the basket in which Moses' mother placed him as an infant. The word for the \"ark of the covenant\" is different in Hebrew. In both cases, therefore, teba has a connection with salvation from waters (\"Exodus:2:3\"). God said to Noah, \"I have decided to destroy all living creatures, for they have filled the earth with violence. Yes, I will wipe them all out along with the earth! (\"Genesis:6:13\"). Only Noah, his family, and pairs of animals of every type would be saved from the flood on the ark. (\"Genesis:6:17-20\"). God commanded Noah to bring enough food for his family and the animals into the ark for the long stay in the ark. God waited patiently while Noah completed the ark. (\"1 Peter:3:20\"). Noah followed God's instructions exactly and completed the ark. (\"Genesis:6:22\"). When the rain began to fall, God himself shut the door to the ark. (\"Genesis:7:16\"). \"Genesis:7:18\" says, \"As the waters rose higher and higher above the ground, the boat floated safely on the surface.\" Was there ever a question that a boat that was built to God's specifications would float and survive the most epic flood the world would ever see? The ark provided safety to Noah's family and the animals while the floodwaters covered the earth for over 150 days. (\"Genesis:7:23-24\"). After 150 days, exactly five months from the time the flood began, the boat came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. (\"Genesis:8:3-4\"). To date the remains of the ark have never been found. God provided Noah and his family a way of escape from the flood and his judgment. Jesus is our ark of safety today from God's judgment and punishment. Just as the Ark only had one door to enter, Jesus is the one and only door God has provided for us to be saved from our sins. (\"John:10:9\" ; \"John:14:6\").", "profile life lessons": "Though God gave the plan for the building of the ark to Noah, he still had to do the work of building it.", "profile key scripture": "As the waters rose higher and higher above the ground, the boat floated safely on the surface."
"profile name": "Shemaiah", "profile description": "Shemaiah was a priest from the line of Aaron and was trusted by Nehemiah. Sanballat and Tobiah hired Shemaiah to try to intimidate Nehemiah and cause him to sin. However, with God's help, Nehemiah saw through their evil plan. He knew Shemaiah's word was not from God!", "profile bible infoscan": "Shemaiah was the son of Delaiah, a priest in the line of Aaron. This is most likely why Nehemiah trusted him (\"1 Chronicles:24:18\"). Shemaiah may also have been a prophet, or pretended to be. He told Nehemiah to shut himself up in the Temple to be safe from his enemies who were coming to kill him. Shemaiah tried to convince Nehemiah that this warning was from God. Nehemiah did not believe him. He knew that Sanballat had hired Shemaiah to intimidate him and cause him to sin! Since Nehemiah was not a priest; he wasn't allowed to enter into the holy, inner areas of the Temple! (\"Numbers:18:7\").", "profile life lessons": "The love of money leads to evil works.", "profile key scripture": "I realized that God had not spoken to him, but that he had uttered this prophecy against me because Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him."
"profile name": "Eli", "profile description": "Eli was very old when Hannah, the wife of Elkanah, offers her son, Samuel, to the service of the Lord. Eli takes the boy under his wing and trains him to serve in the Tabernacle. Eli's sons, Hophni and Phineas, were corrupt and as a result, a mysterious man of God visits Eli and proclaims that God would raise up a faithful priest to take the place of Eli and his family as ministers before God.", "profile bible infoscan": "Eli was a Jewish priest who served God at the Tabernacle in the city of Shiloh. He blessed Hannah in 1 Samuel 1:17 after he understood that she was praying to the Lord for a son: \"In that case,\" Eli said, \"go in peace! May the God of Israel grant the request you have asked of him.\" Hannah then dedicated her son Samuel to the Lord. Samuel served the Lord by assisting Eli in the Tabernacle. (\"1 Samuel:3:1\"). Eli had two sons named Hophni and Phinehas who served as priests in the Tabernacle. They were wicked and did evil in God's sight. They did not respect God or their duties as priests. The Bible calls them scoundrels. (\"1 Samuel:2:12-13\"). Eli was aware of the wicked behavior of his sons. The people of Israel reported their evil deeds in the Tabernacle to their father. Eli confronted his sons; however, he was unable to stop them. The sons refused to listen to their father and continued in their sinful behavior. (\"1 Samuel:3:22-25\"). God sent a prophet to Eli to warn him about his family's disobedience and his judgment that would come because of it. 1 Samuel 2:29 says, \"So why do you scorn my sacrifices and offerings? Why do you give your sons more honor than you give me - for you and they have become fat from the best offerings of my people Israel!\" This tells us that Eli was not innocent before the Lord. He had eaten of the meat that belonged to the Lord and honored his sons over God! The prophet also predicted that both of Eli's sons would die on the same day. One night the Lord called to Samuel as he slept in the Tabernacle. Eli was almost blind and he had gone to bed. Two times after this happened Samuel went into Eli's room and asked him what he wanted. Eli told Samuel to go back to bed because he had not called him. The third time this happened, Eli realized that God must be calling Samuel. He instructed Samuel when God called again to say, \"Speak Lord, Your servant is listening.\" When God spoke to Samuel, He revealed Eli's failure to discipline his sons. 1 Samuel 3:13-14 says, \"I have warned him that judgment is coming upon his family forever, because his sons are blaspheming God and he hasn't disciplined them. So I have vowed that the sins of Eli and his sons will never be forgiven by sacrifices or offerings.\" God held Eli accountable for the sins of his sons and his own disobedience. Samuel shared what God said with Eli and he accepted the will of the Lord. When Israel went to war with the Philistines, Hophni and Phinehas were there when the Ark of God was carried into battle. Eli's heart trembled as he waited to hear news of the battle and the safety of the Ark of God. A messenger brought news that the Israelites had been defeated, his sons were both dead, and the Ark was captured by the enemy. 1 Samuel 4:18 says, \"When the messenger mentioned what had happened to the Ark of God, Eli fell backward from his seat beside the gate. He broke his neck and died, for he was old and overweight. He had been Israel's judge for forty years.\"", "profile life lessons": "We must stay diligent to keep our passion for God alive.", "profile key scripture": "I have warned him that judgment is coming upon his family."
"profile name": "The Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil: This tree, in the middle of the Garden of Eden, gave the knowledge of good and evil, which led ultimately to death to those who ate its fruit (\"Genesis:2:17\" , \"Genesis:3:3\"). Knowledge of good and evil refers to moral knowledge, knowing what is right or wrong (\"Isaiah:7:15-16\"). This is the tree from which Adam and Eve ate.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "But the Lord God warned him, \"You may freely eat the fruit of every tree in the garden - 17 except the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If you eat its fruit, you are sure to die.\""
"profile name": "Stone Tablets/Ten Commandments", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The stone tablets are where God wrote the Law He gave to Moses at Mount Sinai: \"Then the LORD said to Moses, 'Come up to me on the mountain. Stay there, and I will give you the tablets of stone on which I have inscribed the instructions and commands so you can teach the people'\" (\"Exodus:24:12\"). God Himself wrote the words on both sides of the tablets (\"Exodus:32:15\"). When Moses came down from the mountain and saw the people worshiping the golden calf, he threw the stone tablets to the ground, smashing them at the foot of the mountain (\"Exodus:32:19\"). God instructed Moses to chisel out two stone tablets like the first ones and to go up the mountain again. God gave him the Ten Commandments (\"Exodus:34:28\"). God also instructed Moses to make a wooden Ark to keep the tablets in (\"Deuteronomy:10:1-5\"). In the Bible, the word \"tablet\" is also used to speak of God's law written on the heart (\"Proverbs:3:3\" , \"Jeremiah:17:1\" , \"2 Corinthians:3:3\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"My child, never forget the things I have taught you. Store my commands in your heart. Write them deep within your heart.\""
"profile name": "Tower of Babel", "profile description": "There was a time when people were building a tower to defy God and to show their greatness (\"Genesis:11:4\"). God recognizes the rebellion in the heart of the people and he confuses their languages. This caused the people to be scattered throughout the earth.", "profile bible infoscan": "The Tower of Babel was built in the plain of Shinar, which was an area in Mesopotamia. Stone and mortar were common building materials in Canaan; however, stone was in short supply in Mesopotamia. Archeological excavations indicate that mud brick and tar was used to build the tower. (\"Genesis:11:1-3\"). The tower was probably a ziggurat, which is a style of tower common in Mesopotamia. A ziggurat has a square base and slopes upwards. Ziggurat towers were often dedicated to a false god. In their minds, the design of the tower made it convenient for a god to \"come down\" to his temple, receive worship from the people, and then bless them. The tower served as a type of bridge between heaven and earth. The remains of over thirty ziggurat towers have been discovered throughout this region. The oldest one discovered is over 7,000 years old. It is not known for sure exactly when the Tower of Babel was built, but from the Bible we do know that it was several generations after Noah. Babel is a Hebrew word which means \"confusion\" or \"to confuse.\" Building a tower was not a sin; yet, the reason the tower was built was sinful. It was in direct disobedience to God's command for Noah's family to multiply and fill the earth after the flood. Instead, the people decided to stay in one place, build a great city and the tower, and then stay in one place. They also were filled with pride; wanting to be famous instead of bringing glory to God. (Genesis 11:4). The tower was not completed because God put a stop to it. He confused their language so they weren't able to communicate and understand each other any longer. (\"Genesis:11:5-9\").", "profile life lessons": "Remember that pride comes before a fall.", "profile key scripture": "\"Come, let's build a great city for ourselves with a tower that reaches into the sky.\""
"profile name": "Egypt", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Egypt is a country in northeast Africa. It was the first of the great Middle Eastern empires. Throughout the Bible, the land of Egypt is mentioned (\"Psalms:105\" word for Egypt is Mizraim, which is the name of one of the sons of Ham, who founded the country (\"Genesis:10:6\" , \"1 Chronicles:1:8\"). Between the time of Joseph and Moses, the Israelites spent 430 years in Egypt (\"Exodus:12:40\"). Egypt became an enemy of God, turning the Israelites into slaves. Although God struck them with terrible plagues, He also promised to redeem Egypt. Jesus even lived in Egypt for a while when he was a young child (\"Matthew:2:13-15\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "The people of Israel had lived in Egypt for 430 years."
"profile name": "John the Baptist", "profile description": "John the Baptist, the last of the Old Testament prophets, baptized Jesus and witnessed the Holy Spirit. John preached and baptized in the Jordan River until his incarceration and ultimate death at the hands of Herodias and King Herod.", "profile bible infoscan": "John the Baptist is one of the most unusual characters in the Bible. His clothing was woven of camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist. He lived in the desert wilderness, ate locusts and wild honey. He preached a message of repentance and that God's Kingdom was near. When the people confessed their sins, John baptized them in the Jordan River. (\"Matthew:3:1-2\"). John was like no other man. Even John's birth was extraordinary. Zechariah, John's father, was burning incense in the Temple as part of his service as a priest. God's angel Gabriel announced that Elizabeth, John's mother, would miraculously give birth in her old age. The news was an answer to prayer for John's parents. John's mother, Elizabeth, was a cousin of Mary, the mother of Jesus. Both of the women were pregnant when Mary went to visit Elizabeth. The Bible says in Luke 1:41, when the two expectant mothers met, the baby leaped within Elizabeth's womb as she was filled with the Holy Spirit. (\"Luke:1:5-25\"). The New Testament Gospels speak of this role in \"Luke:1:17\" : \"He will be a man with the spirit and power of Elijah. He will prepare the people for the coming of the Lord. He will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and he will cause those who are rebellious to accept the wisdom of the godly.\" In \"Luke:1:76\" , his father, Zechariah, prophesied over him, \"And you, my little son, will be called the prophet of the Most High, because you will prepare the way for the Lord.\" John 1:6-9 says, \"God sent a man, John the Baptist, to tell about the light so that everyone might believe because of his testimony. John himself was not the light; he was simply a witness to tell about the light. The one who is the true light, who gives light to everyone, was coming into the world.\" The true light is Jesus Christ. The Old Testament also spoke of John and his calling. \"Malachi:3:1\" and refer to John the Baptist as a prophet who would prepare the way of the Lord. The prophet Isaiah spoke about John when he said, \"He is a voice shouting in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way for the Lord's coming! Clear the road for him!'\" (\"Matthew:3:3\"). John began his ministry of baptism on the banks of the Jordan River, pointing out that he was not the Messiah but was preparing the way for \"The Lamb of God.\" He explained: \"I baptize with water those who repent of their sins and turn to God. But someone is coming soon who is greater than I am - so much greater that I'm not worthy even to be his slave and carry His sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire\" (\"Matthew:3:11\"). Later, Jesus arrived from Galilee at the Jordan River to be baptized by John. But John tried to talk him out of it. \"I am the one who needs to be baptized by You,\" he said, \"so why are You coming to me?\" (\"Matthew:3:14\"). But Jesus replied, \"'it should be done, for we must carry out all that God requires.' So John agreed to baptize Him\" (\"Matthew:3:15\"). In time, large crowds gathered out of either curiosity or faith to listen to John. He attracted the attention of powerful political and religious leaders, and the admiration of the crowds, but he never lost sight of his calling to point people to Christ. (\"John:1:19-38\"). When his disciples were concerned that more people were following Jesus rather than him, John reminded them of his part in God's plan. He told them that Jesus must become greater and he must become less. (\"John:3:26-30\"). In Luke 7:28 \"Malachi:4:5-6\" , Jesus declared John the Baptist to be the greatest man to have ever lived: \"I tell you, of all who have ever lived, none is greater than John...\" But, Jesus was also quick to point out that those who were a part of the Kingdom of God - people who receive Jesus as their Savior - are even greater in the Spirit than John! John boldly spoke the truth to anyone. John even called out King Herod's sin for marrying his brother's wife Herodias. Herod Antipas had John the Baptist arrested and put in prison. The Bible says that Herod respected John and knew that he was good and holy. Herod often talked with John in prison. (\"Mark:6:20\"). Herod's wife Herodias hated John and devised a plot to have him killed. At Herod's birthday party, Herodias' daughter Salome danced for Herod and his guests. This pleased Herod so much that he promised to give Salome anything she wanted. Salome, by her mother's wicked influence, requested the head of John the Baptist. The king was trapped since he made the promise to Salome in front of his guests. He regrettably had John beheaded in prison. When John's disciples heard the news, they came to bury the body of John in a tomb. (\"Mark:6:17-29\").", "profile life lessons": "We must strive to be obedient to God's calling on our lives and, like John, not care what the rich and powerful think of us.", "profile key scripture": "He will be a man with the spirit and power of Elijah. He will prepare the people for the coming of the Lord. He will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children."
"profile name": "Elisha", "profile description": "The name \"Elisha\" in Hebrew is translated, \"My God is salvation\". Elisha is one of the most powerful prophets in the Old Testament. He was originally a disciple of Elijah. Then when his mentor was taken up into the whirlwind, Elisha became the leader of the sons of the prophets. ", "profile bible infoscan": "Elisha was the son of Shaphat in Abel-meholah. The name Elisha means \"My God is salvation\". God told Elijah to anoint Elisha to replace him as prophet (\"1 Kings:19:16\"). Elisha was plowing a field when Elijah came and threw his cloak across him. Elisha followed Elijah from that day as his personal assistant. (\"1 Kings:19:19\") (\"2 Kings:3:11\"). Elisha began his prophetic ministry around 850 B.C. It continued through about 800 B.C.. He performed miracles, advised kings, and prophesied God's Word. He was Israel's prophet through the rein of four kings: Jehoram, Jehu, Jehoahaz, and Joash. Elisha was very loyal to Elijah and pursued hard his calling in God. Three separate times Elijah told Elisha to stay back while he traveled places the Lord sent him. Each time Elisha replied, \"As surely as the Lord lives and you yourself live, I will never leave you.\" So they went on together. Elijah performed a miracle to divide the Jordan River so they could cross over on dry land. Then Elijah asked Elisha what he could do for him before God took him to heaven. Elisha replied, \"Please let me inherit a double share of your spirit and become your successor.\" \"You have asked a difficult thing.\" Elijah replied. \"If you see me when I am taken from you, then you will get your request. But if not, then you won't.\" Elisha was with Elijah as chariots of fire came between them to take Elijah away in a whirlwind. Elisha picked up Elijah's cloak, struck the Jordan River and it parted - just like Elijah had done! The group of prophets who watched the events exclaimed, \"Elijah's spirit rests upon Elisha!\" And they went to meet him and bowed to the ground before him.\" The mantel of Israel's prophet was officially passed from Elijah to Elisha! (\"2 Kings:2:18\"). Elisha was the leader of schools or groups of prophets in at least three places: Bethel, Gilgal, and Jericho. (\"2 Kings:2:13\"). Elisha's ministry was filled with many miracles. In 2 Kings 2:19-22, Elisha purified bad water for the town of Jericho. Later, a large group of boys were mocking and making fun of Elisha as he walked along the road. He cursed them and forty two boys were attacked and killed by bears. One time Elisha was asked for advice from King Jehoshaphat, King Jehoram, and the king of Edom. He boldly replied that except for his respect of King Jehoshaphat, he wouldn't bother with them! He told them that God would give them victory of Moab. Elisha also performed a miracle for the king's armies who had run out of water to drink. God filled the valley with water and it didn't even rain! Water came from everywhere! (\"2 Kings:3:9\"). Elisha provided a miracle of multiplying oil for a widow of a prophet that had served Elisha. The miracle saved her children from slavery (\"2 Kings:4:7\"). Elisha performed another miracle when he made poisonous stew safe to eat for a group of prophets in a time of famine (\"2 Kings:4:38\"). Elisha performed a miracle for a widow of a prophet that served Elisha. She and her husband provided a place for Elisha to stay and eat as he traveled through the area. In fact, they built a room for Elisha on the roof of their house. The woman could not have a child. Elisha prophesied that God would give her a child. The prophecy came to pass. When the child was older, he died. The mother came to get Elisha. The prophet immediately returned with her, prayed to God, and then raised the boy to life. (\"2 Kings:4:8\"). By one of Elisha's miracles, Naaman was cured of leprosy. (\"2 Kings:5:27\"). Elisha also performed a miracle to make an ax head float to the surface of the Jordan River that was lost by a prophet. (\"2 Kings:6:6\"). Elisha prayed for God to blind the Syrian troops sent to capture him. Then he led them to Samaria where Israel's army was located. He prayed again and God allowed them to see (\"2 Kings:6:8\"). Near the end of his life, Elisha wept over Israel, and the judgment of God that was about to come as Hazael become king. (\"2 Kings:8:11\"). Elisha gave his last prophecy on his deathbed when he was very ill. King Jehoash of Israel visited Elisha. He prophesied to the king that God would give him victory over Aram. Elisha died after that and was buried. Later, when a dead man's body was being buried, he was thrown into Elisha's tomb. As soon as the body touched Elisha's bones, he came to life again and jumped to his feet! (\"2 Kings:13:14\").", "profile life lessons": "Like Elisha we should not be moved by the perceived human strength.", "profile key scripture": "When they came to the other side, Elijah said to Elisha, \"Tell me what I can do for you before I am taken away.\" And Elisha replied, \"Please let me inherit a double share of your spirit and become your successor.\""
"profile name": "Eve", "profile description": "There was a first man, and, you guessed it, there was also a first woman. No helper or companion was suitable for Adam among the creatures God made, so God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam and created Eve from Adam's rib.", "profile bible infoscan": "No helper or companion was suitable for Adam among the creatures God made, so the Lord caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam. As he slept, God took one of his ribs and made it into a woman (\"Genesis:2:22\"). She was first called \"woman\" because she was \"taken out of man\" (\"Genesis:2:23\"), but later Adam called her \"Eve\" (\"Genesis:3:20\") because she was the mother of all living things (\"Genesis:3:20\"). The name Eve means \"life\" or \"life-giving.\" Eve (and her husband Adam) disobeyed God and sin entered the world separating us from God (\"Romans:5:12\"). However, there is good news! God sent his son Jesus Christ to pay the penalty for our sin so that by believing in Jesus we can have a restored relationship with God (\"2 Corinthians:5:19\").", "profile life lessons": "Temptation can be very attractive.", "profile key scripture": "Then the man - Adam - named his wife Eve, because she would be the mother of all who live."
"profile name": "Golden Image", "profile description": "This was no ordinary image. The statue was made of gold and measured ninety feet tall and nine feet wide. It stood on the plain of Dura in Babylon for all to see. Nebuchadnezzar was quite proud of his creation. So much so that he ordered everyone to bow down and worship it whenever the instruments played. Do it, or be thrown into the blazing furnace! Everyone obeyed except three Hebrew men who refused to bow down and worship anyone but the one true living God, who made heaven and earth! ", "profile bible infoscan": "We don't know how much time passed between Daniel's interpretation of the king's dream in Daniel 2 and the building of the golden statue in Daniel 3. Could the king have gotten the idea for his statue from the gold head in Daniel's interpretation? Perhaps Nebuchadnezzar liked the idea of his head being gold in the vision from God. The only information we have about the statue is in in \"Daniel:3:1\" . \"King Nebuchadnezzar made a gold statue ninety feet tall and nine feet wide and set it up on the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon.\" The king was proud of his statue and planned to dedicate it in the presence of all his officials. As the officials gathered, they received instructions from the king. \"When you hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipes, and other musical instruments, bow to the ground to worship King Nebuchadnezzar's gold statue. Anyone who refuses to obey will then be thrown into a blazing furnace\" (\"Daniel:3:5-6\"). God commands us to worship only Him. This is the reason the three men refused to obey the king's command. They chose to be true to God even when they faced with the blazing furnace! (\"Daniel:3:16-18\"). The three men walked out of the furnace unharmed and untouched by the roaring fire. The king exclaimed \"Praise to the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego! He sent his angel to rescue his servants who trusted in Him. They defied the king's command and were willing to die rather than serve or worship any god except their own God. \"Therefore, I make this decree: If any people, whatever their race or nation or language, speak a word against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they will be torn limb from limb, and their houses will be turned into heaps of rubble. There is no other god who can rescue like this!\" (\"Daniel:3:29\"). God proved once again that He was the one true living God! The king rewarded the man's boldness. He promoted them to even higher positions in Babylon. (\"Daniel:3:26-30\")", "profile life lessons": "Stay away from idols; which is anything that might take God's place.", "profile key scripture": "King Nebuchadnezzar made a gold statue ninety feet tall and nine feet wide[a] and set it up on the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon."
"profile name": "Mary (Young)", "profile description": "Mary was a young, devout Jewish girl and a descendant of David. She was engaged to Joseph of Nazareth when she was visited by the angel Gabriel. That's when she learned that she was to be the mother of God's Son, the Messiah. Could you imagine getting that message? I would freak out.", "profile bible infoscan": "Mary was a young, devout Jewish girl, a descendant of David. She was engaged to Joseph of Nazareth. (\"Matthew:1:16\"). Mary was the cousin of Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist (Luke 1:36). Her life changed forever when she received a visit from an angel of God named Gabriel. Mary learned she was to be the mother of God's Son, the Messiah. Could you imagine receiving this message? Mary was afraid but she did not freak out! After hearing Gabriel's explanation, she submitted to the will of God and made herself available. \"Mary responded, \"I am the Lord's servant. May everything you have said about me come true.\" And then the angel left her. (Luke 1:38). A few days after Gabriel left, Mary went to visit her cousin Elizabeth who was pregnant with her son, John. Mary greeted Elizabeth; and then an amazing thing happened. \"At the sound of Mary's greeting, Elizabeth's child leaped within her, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.\" (\"Luke:1:41\"). Elizabeth then said to Mary, \"You are blessed because you believed that the Lord would do what he said.\"(Luke 1:45). Mary responded with a song of joy and praise to God! The song of joy she sang shows how deeply she knew and loved God and the Old Testament Scriptures (Luke 1: 47-55). Mary knew about the prophecies of how a Savior would be born - but she never had the slightest idea that it would be her baby! As Jesus grew, Mary took note of things that happened in His life. She knew that Jesus was not just her son; He was also the Son of the Most High! Mary remembered all that the shepherds had said at His birth. \"After seeing him, the shepherds told everyone what had happened and what the angel had said to them about this child. All who heard the shepherds' story were astonished, but Mary kept all these things in her heart and thought about them often.\" (Luke 1:32; 2:17-19). When Jesus was twelve years old His parents found Him in the Jerusalem Temple, sitting among the religious teachers, listening to them and asking questions. All who heard Him were amazed at His understanding and His answers. His parents didn't know what to think! Jesus then returned with His parents to Nazareth. Mary stored all these things in her heart! She continued to watch her Son Jesus, grow in wisdom, stature, and favor with God and man. (\"Luke:2:45-52\"). Mary knew deep inside that Jesus would soon do even greater things by the anointing of God's Spirit and power! This is why it's not surprising that Mary told the servants at the wedding celebration to do whatever her son asked them to do. She knew first-hand that nothing is impossible with God! Jesus' first miracle was to honor a request from His mother. Because of this miracle, Jesus' disciples believed in Him. (John 2:1-12; Luke 1:37). When Jesus was dedicated as a young boy in the Temple, Mary and Joseph met Simeon and Anna, who recognized Jesus as the Messiah. Simeon predicted to Mary that a sword would pierce her very soul (\"Luke:2:35\"). No doubt these words came to mind when she watched Jesus being crucified. At the cross, Jesus committed her into the care of John, His beloved disciple, who took her into His home (\"John:19:25-27\"). The last reference we have of Mary in the Bible is in Acts 1:14. She was with the disciples and other believers in the upstairs room in Jerusalem. These people had gathered to pray and wait for God's gift of the Holy Spirit!", "profile life lessons": "Submit to God's will.", "profile key scripture": "\"Mary responded, 'I am the Lord's servant, and I am willing to accept whatever he wants. May everything you have said come true.'\""
"profile name": "Canaan", "profile description": "The land of Canaan is also known as the \"Promised Land\" This is the land that God promised to Abraham and his descendants. Joseph and his family lived in Canaan. It was a rich land with fertile soil, perfect for growing crops. A famine in the land caused Joseph's family to leave Canaan and move to Egypt.", "profile bible infoscan": "The land of Canaan, also called the \"Promised Land\" is the land God promised to give to Abraham and His descendants. (\"Genesis:12:1-7\"). It was mentioned over 75 times in the Old Testament of the Bible. Ancient Canaan included the region between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean. This is roughly the present day Israel, the Palestinian territories, Lebanon, and coastal and southern Syria. The borders of the land were described in detail to Moses in \"Numbers:34:1-12\" . God reminded and reaffirmed His promises to Abraham many times through the years. \"I will confirm my covenant with you and your descendants after you, from generation to generation. This is the everlasting covenant: I will always be your God and the God of your descendants after you. And I will give the entire land of Canaan, where you now live as a foreigner, to you and your descendants. It will be their possession forever, and I will be their God.\" (\"Genesis:17:17\"). When Joshua's twelve spies scouted out the land, they found out the land was fertile with good soil for growing food. The spies described it as a bountiful land - a land flowing with milk and honey. (\"Numbers:13:25-27\"). \"When they came to the valley of Eshcol, they cut down a branch with a single cluster of grapes so large that it took two of them to carry it on a pole between them!\" (\"Numbers:13:23\"). Unfortunately, all but two spies (Caleb and Joshua) also brought back bad news - the land was heavily fortified and giants lived there! They advised God's people to not try to possess the land, contrary to God's command and promise to give it to them. (Numbers 13:26-28, 31-33) This bad report caused the Israelite's to rebel. They wanted to return to Egypt instead of trusting God. This brought God's wrath and punishment upon them. God declared that none of them would enter Canaan. Instead, they would wander in the wilderness for 40 years! Only Joshua and Caleb were allowed to enter into Canaan. (\"Numbers:14:1-43\"). Canaan and the Canaanites are mentioned throughout the, mostly in the Pentateuch books (Genesis through Deuteronomy) and the books of Joshua and Judges. The part of the book of Genesis in the Hebrew Bible often called the Table of Nations describes the Canaanites as being descended from an ancestor called Canaan, the son of Ham, the grandson of Noah (\"Genesis:10:15-19\"). Israel's conquest of the Promised Land, Canaan, is described in the Old Testament books of Joshua, Judges, 1st and 2nd Samuel, and 1st and 2nd Kings. The Canaanites are said to have been one of seven \"nations\" driven out by the Israelites. This happened after the Exodus. The other nations were described in \"Deuteronomy:7:1\" \"When the LORD your God brings you into the land you are about to enter and occupy, he will clear away many nations ahead of you: the Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites. These seven nations are greater and more numerous than you.\" Right before Joshua entered into Canaan; God spoke to him in a powerful way and promised to give him success. \"After the death of Moses the Lord's servant, the Lord spoke to Joshua son of Nun, Moses' assistant. He said, \"Moses my servant is dead. Therefore, the time has come for you to lead these people, the Israelites, across the Jordan River into the land I am giving them. I promise you what I promised Moses: 'Wherever you set foot, you will be on land I have given you - from the Negev wilderness in the south to the Lebanon Mountains in the north, from the Euphrates River in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west, including all the land of the Hittites.' No one will be able to stand against you as long as you live. For I will be with you as I was with Moses. I will not fail you or abandon you. \"Be strong and courageous, for you are the one who will lead these people to possess all the land I swore to their ancestors I would give them. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the instructions Moses gave you. Do not deviate from them, turning either to the right or to the left. Then you will be successful in everything you do. Study this Book of Instruction continually. Meditate on it day and night so you will be sure to obey everything written in it. Only then will you prosper and succeed in all you do. This is my command - be strong and courageous! Do not be afraid or discouraged. For the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.\" (\"Joshua:1:1-9\"). Imagine being Joshua and hearing that before you started out! Joshua obeyed God and led the Israelites into Canaan. After crossing over the Jordan River, Joshua faced a walled and heavily fortified city of Jericho. God supernaturally brought down the walls of Jericho as the Israelites marched around them as God instructed. This confirmed to everyone that Canaan indeed would become theirs according to God's promise. (Joshua 6). As Joshua took possession of the land, it was divided between the tribes of Israel and God's promise years before to Abraham was fulfilled. \"So the LORD gave to Israel all the land he had sworn to give their ancestors, and they took possession of it and settled there. And the LORD gave them rest on every side, just as He had solemnly promised their ancestors. None of their enemies could stand against them, for the LORD helped them conquer all their enemies. Not a single one of all the good promises the LORD had given to the family of Israel was left unfulfilled; everything he had spoken came true. (\"Joshua:21:43-45\").", "profile life lessons": "God's gifts and promises are good.", "profile key scripture": "And I will give the entire land of Canaan, where you now live as a foreigner, to you and your descendants. It will be their possession forever, and I will be their God.\""
"profile name": "The High Priest", "profile description": "The high priests and the most powerful priests were mainly Sadducees (Acts 5:17), a Jewish religious group made up of mostly land owners, merchants, and priests. The Sadducees opposed Jesus during his ministry (Matthew 22:23-24) and also opposed the early church (Acts 4:1-3, Acts 5:17-18).", "profile bible infoscan": "The high priests and the most powerful priests were mainly Sadducees (\"Acts:5:17\"), a Jewish religious group made up of mostly land owners, merchants, and priests. Unlike the Pharisees, they did not believe in the resurrection of the dead or that there is life after death. They also did not believe in angels and demons or that all the Old Testament was God's Word. The Sadducees opposed Jesus during his ministry (\"Matthew:22:23-24\") and also opposed the early church (\"Acts:4:1-3\" , \"Acts:5:17-18\"). Because the Sadducees rejected all the Jewish traditions, they were often in conflict with the Pharisees.", "profile life lessons": "Religion cannot save you, only believing in Jesus can.", "profile key scripture": "The high priest and his officials, who were Sadducees, were filled with jealousy."
"profile name": "Second Coming", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The Second Coming is the term used to describe Jesus Christ's future return to the earth at the end of the present age. The phrase \"Second Coming\" does not appear in the Bible, but there are over 300 references in the New Testament alone to a \"second time\" or to Christ returning or coming again (\"Acts:1:8\" , \"Hebrews:9:28\"). On the night before His crucifixion, Jesus told His disciples that He would return (\"John:14:3\"). When He ascended into heaven, two angels told the disciples Jesus would return in the same way as they saw Him go (\"Acts:1:8\"). The Second Coming of Christ will be the climax of history. According to the Bible, we will see Him in person, but no one will know when it will be. Jesus told His disciples, \"So, you, too, must keep watch! For you don't know what day your Lord is coming\" (\"Matthew:24:42\"). Because His coming will be at an unexpected time, like when a burglar comes, Jesus warned them (and us) to \"be ready all the time, for the Son of Man will come when least expected\" (\"Matthew:24:44\"). Jesus talked about the end times and warned that there would be wars, earthquakes, famine, and persecution. He also said that the Good News must first be preached to all nations. While waiting for His return, Christians have the opportunity to share the Gospel with others (\"Mark:13:1-10\" , \"Luke:21:10-12\"). Paul and Peter wrote that there will be many false prophets and teachers in the end times (\"1 Timothy:4:1-2\" , \"2 Peter:2:1\") and that Jesus will come as a judge: \"I solemnly urge you in the presence of God and Christ Jesus, who will someday judge the living and the dead when he appears to set up his Kingdom\" (\"2 Timothy:4:1\"). Peter, in \"2 Peter:3:3-4\" , also writes about the signs of the end times: \"Most importantly, I want to remind you that in the last days scoffers will come, mocking the truth and following their own desires. They will say, 'What happened to the promise that Jesus is coming again?'\" He also writes about the final judgment: \"But the day of the Lord will come unexpected as a thief. Then the heavens will pass away with a terrible noise, and the very elements themselves will disappear in fire, and the earth and everything on it will be found to deserve judgment\" (\"2 Peter:3:10\"). Because everything is going to be destroyed, Peter urges Christians to live holy and godly lives and to look forward to the day of God: \"On that day he will set the heavens on fire, and the elements will melt away in the flames. But we are looking forward to the new heaven and new earth he has promised, a world filled with God's righteousness\" (\"2 Peter:3:12-13\"). The fact of Christ's resurrection and His Second Coming gives us hope: \"Since we believe that Jesus died and was raised to life again, we also believe that when Jesus returns, God will bring back with him the believers who have died\" (\"1 Thessalonians:4:14\"). Christ died for us so that, whether we are dead or alive when He returns, we can live with Him forever (\"1 Thessalonians:5:10\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Don't let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God, and trust also in me. There is more than enough room in my Father's home. If this were not so, would I have told you that I am going to prepare a place for you? When everything is ready, I will come and get you, so that you will always be with me where I am.\""
"profile name": "The Royal Seal", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "When a king signed a law, he usually also sealed it. A seal was used to certify a signature or to show that a letter was authentic and not a forgery. A device such as a signet ring or cylinder engraved with the owner's name and/or a design was used. The ring was pressed down or a cylinder was rolled to create an impression on wax or moist clay. The king also sealed the stone at the mouth of the den of lions so that no-one would disobey the law and rescue Daniel (\"Daniel:6:17\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"A stone was brought and placed over the mouth of the den. The king sealed the stone with his own royal seal and the seals of his nobles, so that no one could rescue Daniel.\""
"profile name": "Abraham", "profile description": "Abraham lived in the city of Ur (sounds like I'm clearing my throat). God told Abraham that he would become the father of a great nation. Abraham trusted God and was obedient to Him, and, after 25 years, God's promise was fulfilled through the birth of Isaac. God tested Abraham's faith by asking him to sacrifice his Isaac - this interaction pointed to how God would provide His only Son, Jesus Christ, as a sacrifice for the sins of the world.", "profile bible infoscan": "Abraham's name was actually Abram until he was 99 years old! We will learn more about the name change later! When Abram was 75 years old, God called him to leave his country and family. He was instructed to travel far away to a country called Canaan. God told him that he would become the father of a great nation. He obeyed God by total faith not being familiar with his destination. (\"Hebrews:11:8\"). He began his journey with his wife Sarai and his nephew Lot, as well as other relatives, servants, and animals. Abram and his family traveled for a long time, living in tents. He first settled in Haran (about 560 miles away) and later went to Shechem, Bethel, and Hebron. The people around him worshiped pagan gods - but Abram built altars and worshiped the only true God. (\"Genesis:12:1-9\"). When the land of Canaan experienced a famine, Abram traveled to Egypt. He feared the Egyptians would see how beautiful his wife Sarai was and would kill him to take her! Abram lied to the Egyptians and said that Sarai was his sister. God intervened to save Sarai from the mess that Abram created instead of trusting Him to keep them safe. (\"Genesis:12:10-20\"). Genesis 13:1-2 tells us that when Abram left Egypt that he was very rich. Lot, Abram's nephew became very wealthy too. To keep the peace, Abram gave Lot his choice of land to settle on. Lot chose the Jordan valley and Abram lived in the land of Canaan. In Genesis 13:14-18, God renewed His covenant promise to Abram: \"After Lot had gone, the Lord said to Abram, \"Look as far as you can see in every direction - north and south, east and west. I am giving all this land, as far as you can see, to you and your descendants as a permanent possession. And I will give you so many descendants that, like the dust of the earth, they cannot be counted! Go and walk through the land in every direction, for I am giving it to you.\" So Abram moved his camp to Hebron and settled near the oak grove belonging to Mamre. There he built another altar to the Lord.\" Abram was a peaceful man, yet he was not afraid to take action when necessary. He saved Lot from an enemy army with 318 trained men. \"Abram recovered all the goods that had been taken, and he brought back his nephew Lot with his possessions and all the women and other captives.\" (\"Genesis:14:16\"). After this battle, Abram tithed, giving a tenth of all the goods that he had recovered in battle to the priest of God Most High - Melchizedek. (\"Hebrews:7:1-10\"). God repeated His covenant promise to Abram, yet he had a hard time believing it. Abram said that his trusted servant Eliezer would be his heir since he had no children of his own. The Lord said that would not happen! He took Abram out to count the stars in the sky. God said that would be how many descendants He would give Abram! (Genesis 15: 1-5). \"And Abram believed the Lord, and the Lord counted him as righteous because of his faith.\" (\"Genesis:15:6\"). Abram, however, became impatient. He took matters into his own hands and had a child with Sarai's servant. The child was named Ishmael. (\"Genesis:16:15\"). Can you imagine going through your life with one name for 99 years and then God changing it? What an adjustment! That's what happened to Abram when God changed his name for a very good reason. The name Abram means \"the father is exalted.\" God changed his name to Abraham, which means \"father of a multitude\" or \"father of many.\" This was an amazing declaration from God; He changed Abram's name even when he and his wife were unable to birth children of their own! \"This is my covenant with you: I will make you the father of a multitude of nations! What's more, I am changing your name. It will no longer be Abram. Instead, you will be called Abraham, for you will be the father of many nations. I will make you extremely fruitful. Your descendants will become many nations, and kings will be among them!\" (\"Genesis:17:4-6\"). God also changed Sarai's name to Sarah which means \"princess\". (\"Genesis:17:15-16\"). Both Sarah and Abraham laughed at the thought of birthing a child in their old age. This is why their son was named Isaac which means \"laughter\" or \"one who laughs\". (\"Genesis:17:17-19\"). Sarah also laughed with joy when Isaac was born. (\"Genesis:21:6\"). Abraham was an intercessor and prayed for the wicked city of Sodom to be spared from God's wrath. God heard Abraham's prayer and agreed not to destroy the city if only ten righteous people were found. We know that the city was so wicked that ten righteous people could not be found and God did destroy the city! Even so, God honored Abraham's request and kept Lot, Abraham's nephew, safe. (\"Genesis:18:16-19\"). Oddly enough, in Genesis 20:1-18, we read that Abraham, a second time, was afraid and lied to King Abimelech just as he had the Egyptians. He told the king that Sarah was his sister. God intervened again and disaster was avoided! After all Abraham had been through with trusting God, you would think he could put his life in God's hands! At last, at the time God predicted, Sarah gave birth to the child of promise, Isaac! (\"Genesis:21:1-3\"). Sometime later God tested Abraham. He told him to take Isaac and sacrifice him on Mount Moriah. Abraham obeyed God's instructions and demonstrated total trust in Him. As Abraham was about to sacrifice Isaac, the angel of the Lord stopped him and gave him a ram to sacrifice in Isaac's place. Genesis 22:15-19 says, \"Then the angel of the Lord called again to Abraham from heaven. \"This is what the Lord says: Because you have obeyed me and have not withheld even your son, your only son, I swear by my own name that I will certainly bless you. I will multiply your descendants beyond number, like the stars in the sky and the sand on the seashore. Your descendants will conquer the cities of their enemies. And through your descendants all the nations of the earth will be blessed - all because you have obeyed me.\" Then they returned to the servants and traveled back to Beersheba, where Abraham continued to live.\" We read further of Abraham's amazing faith in Hebrews 11:17-19: \"It was by faith that Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice when God was testing him. Abraham, who had received God's promises, was ready to sacrifice his only son, Isaac, even though God had told him, \"Isaac is the son through whom your descendants will be counted.\" Abraham reasoned that if Isaac died, God was able to bring him back to life again. And in a sense, Abraham did receive his son back from the dead.\" Abraham's wife Sarah died when she was 127 years old. Abraham bought a cave at Machpelah from Ephron the Hittite to bury Sarah. (\"Genesis:23:1-20\"). Before Abraham died, he called his faithful servant to find a wife for Isaac. Abraham did not want Isaac to marry one of the Canaanite women. He sent him to his relatives in Haran to find a wife for Isaac. God honored Abraham's request and led the servant to a relative named Rebekah, whom Isaac married. (Genesis 24:1-67). Abraham was the first Hebrew Patriarch, or Israel's founding father of the faith (Hebrews 7:4). Abraham is referred to as the friend of God (2 Chronicles 20:7; James 2:23) and a man of faith (Hebrews 11:8-19). Throughout Abraham's life, God revealed His plan to him because Abraham trusted God. Genesis 25:7-11 says, \"Abraham lived for 175 years, and he died at a ripe old age, having lived a long and satisfying life. He breathed his last and joined his ancestors in death. His sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, near Mamre, in the field of Ephron son of Zohar the Hittite. This was the field Abraham had purchased from the Hittites and where he had buried his wife Sarah. After Abraham's death, God blessed his son Isaac, who settled near Beer-lahai-roi in the Negev.\"", "profile life lessons": "God makes himself known to all people.", "profile key scripture": "And Abram believed the Lord, and the Lord counted him as righteous because of his faith."
"profile name": "King Herod", "profile description": "Talk about a ruthless ruler, this guy didn't trust anyone, which lead him to murder many rabbis and even his family members. It was this maniacal mindset that led him to try to kill the infant Jesus.", "profile bible infoscan": "Herod was a ruthless ruler who built up many of Israel's archaeological structures but also tore down many people. Herod had the title of king of the Jews, but he really wasn't the king that most Jewish people wanted as he did not come from the Davidic family line and he was only part Jewish. His title was given to him by Caesar Augustus - and he was considered a \"client king\" of Rome. Herod tried to appease both Rome and the Jews, but this torn allegiance played a part in the Jews not trusting him. Herod grew increasingly paranoid, not knowing which people he could trust. This led him to murder many people, including rabbis and even members of his own family. It was this same fear that led him to murder the innocent children in and around Bethlehem after receiving the report from the wise men.", "profile life lessons": "Don't be fearful of people.", "profile key scripture": "\"Herod was furious when he realized that the wise men had outwitted him. He sent soldiers to kill all the boys in and around Bethlehem who were two years old and under, based on the wise men's report of the star's first appearance.\""
"profile name": "Herodias", "profile description": "John the Baptist publicly humiliated Herodias, wife of King Herod. She convinced King Herod to have him arrested. Later, she used her daughter to trick the King into executing John the Baptist.", "profile bible infoscan": "Herodias was married to Philip, Herod Antipas' brother. Philip and Herodias were the parents of Salome. Herodias later left Philip to marry Herod Antipas. John publicly rebuked Herod Antipas, telling him it was against God's law to marry his brother's wife. This angered and embarrassed Herodias. Herod had John arrested and put in prison as a favor to Herodias. This satisfied her for a time but she continued to carry a grudge against John and wanted to kill him. However, without Herod's approval she was powerless. Herod respected John and protected him. Herodias eventually had her way; she used her daughter Salome in a deceptive and wicked scheme. One night, Salome danced before Herod and his party guests. Herod was so pleased that he told Salome to ask for anything she wanted- up to half his kingdom! Herodias plan worked! She told Salome to ask for the head of John the Baptist! Herod regretted what he had said. Even so, he had made the vow in front of his guests, so he could not refuse Salome's request. Herod kept his promise and his executioner cut off John's head in prison. Salome then presented John's head on a tray to her mother.", "profile life lessons": "Like John, you must be willing to stand up for what is right, even if we are opposed by people in powerful positions.", "profile key scripture": "She went out and asked her mother, \"What should I ask for?\" Her mother told her, \"Ask for the head of John the Baptist!\""
"profile name": "Persia", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Cyrus the Great founded the First Persian Empire in the 6th century B.C. after overthrowing the Medes. The empire expanded to eventually rule over large portions of the ancient world, stretching from the Indus Valley in the east, to Thrace and Macedon on the northeastern border of Greece. At that time, it was the biggest empire in the world. In time, this empire would also control Egypt. A series of monarchs unified the tribes and groups by making a complex network of roads to move armies and commerce. From this empire, Cyrus the Great (Cyrus II of Persia) advanced to defeat the Median, the Lydian, and the Babylonian Empires. This opened the way for other conquests into Egypt and Asia Minor. The empire spanned the three continents: Asia, Africa, and Europe. The Persian Empire included the modern territories of Iran, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Israel, Palestine, and Lebanon. These were all large centers of ancient Egypt. They would reach as far west as Libya, Turkey, Thrace, and Macedonia. It also reached much of the Black Sea coastal regions, Armenia, Georgia, Azerbaijan, much of Central Asia, Afghanistan, northern Saudi Arabia, and parts of western Pakistan. The Empire finally collapsed when Alexander the Great defeated the Persian armies at Granicus in 334 BC, followed by Issus (333 BC), and at Gaugamela (331 BC). Afterwards, he marched on Susa and Persepolis, which surrendered in early 330 BC. The nation of Persia would be modern day Iran. The Persia Empire (550-330 B.C.) was much larger beginning at the Indus River in the east and stretching as far west as the Aegean Sea in Asia Minor. The empire reached north to Southern Russia and south included Egypt to the Persian Gulf. There were four capital cities; Susa, Pasargadae, Ecbatana, and Persepolis. The story of Esther takes place in King Xerxes' fortress in Susa. \"Esther:1:1-2\" says, \"These events happened in the days of King Xerxes, who reigned over 127 provinces stretching from India to Ethiopia. At that time Xerxes ruled his empire from his royal throne at the fortress of Susa.\" There were five kings that are mentioned in the Bible which played a role in Judah's history during periods of exile: - King Cyrus (539-530 B.C.) conquered Babylon in 539 B.C. He is responsible for developing Persia into a world empire. Cyrus authorized the Jews to return from exile to their homeland. This fulfilled the prophecy in Isaiah chapters 44-45. - Cambyses (530-522 B.C.) believed to be Artaxerxes of Ezra chapter 4. - Darius 1 (522- 486 B.C.) of Ezra chapter 6. - Xerxes (486-465 B.C.) is the king in the book of Esther. - Artaxerxes 1 (464- 423 B.C.) of Nehemiah chapters 1-2. Nehemiah was the king's cupbearer and supported his trip to Jerusalem to rebuild the city.", "profile life lessons": "God wants you to shine the light of His love among people that don't know Him.", "profile key scripture": "Be careful to live properly among your unbelieving neighbors. Then even if they accuse you of doing wrong, they will see your honorable behavior, and they will give honor to God when he judges the world."
"profile name": "Salome", "profile description": "Salome, daughter of Herodias, danced for Herod's guest at his birthday banquet. This performance persuaded him to promise her anything she wanted, so she asked for the head of John the Baptist.", "profile bible infoscan": "Herodias and Philip (Herod Antipas' half-brother), had a daughter. She is not mentioned by name in the Bible; however the historian Josephus tells us that her name was Salome. Some Greek texts show that Salome may have also been called Herodias like her mother but was referred to as Salome in order to avoid confusion. Herod sent soldiers to arrest and put John in prison as a favor to Herodias. John had spoken against their divorces and remarriage. Herodias bore a grudge against John and wanted to kill him, but without Herod's approval she was powerless. Herod respected John. Knowing that he was a good and holy man and protected him. Although Herod was greatly disturbed whenever he talked with John, he liked to listen to him. Herodias' came up with an evil scheme to rid herself of John the Baptist once and for all. Herodias' chance finally came on Herod's birthday. He gave a party for his high government officials, army officers, and the leading citizens of Galilee. Salome performed a dance that greatly pleased Herod and his guests. The king said she could have anything she wanted - up to half his kingdom. Salome asked her mother what she should ask for. Herodias told her to ask for the head of John the Baptist! And, that is exactly what Salome did. The king deeply regretted what he had said; but because of the vows he had made in front of his guests, he couldn't refuse her. The king immediately sent an executioner to the prison to cut off John's head and bring it to him. The soldier beheaded John in the prison and brought his head on a tray and gave it to Salome, who took it to her mother.", "profile life lessons": "Don't be like Salome. Never allow someone else's hatred to become your hatred.", "profile key scripture": "So the girl hurried back to the king and told him, \"I want the head of John the Baptist, right now, on a tray!\""
"profile name": "Samuel the Prophet", "profile description": "Samuel was a great prophet and a leader of ancient Israel. He is viewed by rabbinical literature as the last of the Hebrew judges and the first of the Major Prophets.", "profile bible infoscan": "Samuel served the Lord as he faithfully assisted the priest Eli in the Tabernacle. 1 Samuel 3:1 says, \"Meanwhile, the boy Samuel served the Lord by assisting Eli. Now in those days messages from the Lord were very rare, and visions were quite uncommon.\" One night, as young Samuel was sleeping in the Tabernacle, God called out to him two separate times. Each time, young Samuel thought Eli had called him and went into Eli's room. 1 Samuel 3:7 says, \"Samuel did not yet know the Lord because he had never had a message from the Lord before.\" Twice, Eli told Samuel that he hadn't called him and he should go back to bed. When God called to Samuel a third time, Eli recognized that it was God calling young Samuel. He told Samuel to say, Speak Lord, Your servant is listening.\" This time when God called, Samuel answered as Eli had instructed him to do. God then shared with Samuel that He was about to judge and punish Eli's family for their disobedience and wickedness. The next day, Samuel shared God's message with Eli. (1 Samuel 3:10-18). This was only the beginning of Samuel's calling to be a prophet of God. The people of Israel recognized it too! \"As Samuel grew up, the Lord was with him, and everything Samuel said proved to be reliable. And all Israel, from Dan in the north to Beersheba in the south, knew that Samuel was confirmed as a prophet of the Lord. The Lord continued to appear at Shiloh and gave messages to Samuel there at the Tabernacle.\" (\"1 Samuel:3:19\"). Following After Eli's death, Israel was turned over to the Philistines for 20 years because they chose to worship idols. The Ark of the Lord was also taken by the Philistines. Samuel called the people to return to the Lord and to get rid of their idols. The people listened to Samuel, turned back to God, and worshiped Him only (\"1 Samuel:7:1-4\"). Samuel then gathered everyone at Mizpah. He prayed for the people and they fasted from food and confessed their sin to God. The Philistines gathered to attack the Israelites. Samuel prayed and offered a sacrifice to the Lord. The Lord then spoke with a mighty voice of thunder from heaven. This confused the Philistines and the Israelites soundly defeated them. Samuel placed a large stone between the towns of Mizpah and Jeshanah. He named the place Ebenezer, which means \"the stone of help\", to remember how God helped them there. For the rest of Samuel's life, the Lord's powerful hand was raised against the Philistines. Israel had peace with the Philistines and the Ammonites for some time. Samuel continued to serve as Israel's judge until his death. Each year he traveled between Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah to judge the people of Israel. He would then return to his home at Ramah, and judge the people there. Samuel built an altar to the Lord at Ramah (\"1 Samuel:7:5-17\"). Samuel appointed his sons, Joel and Abijah, to be judges over Israel. They were not like Samuel. They were corrupt and accepted bribes. The Israelites spoke to Samuel about his wicked sons. They told Samuel that they wanted a king to judge them like the other nations. God told Samuel, \"Do everything they say to you,\" the LORD replied, \"for it is me they are rejecting, not you. They don't want me to be their king any longer.\" Samuel warned the people about the way a king would rule over them. The people refused to listen. God told Samuel He had chosen Saul to be Israel's first king. \"Then Samuel took a flask of olive oil and poured it over Saul's head. He kissed Saul and said, \"I am doing this because the Lord has appointed you to be the ruler over Israel, his special possession.\" (\"1 Samuel:9:15-17\"). Samuel also anointed Saul as Israel's king in front of all the tribes of Israel at Mizpah (\"1 Samuel:10:17-25\"). Samuel grew old and gave a farewell address to Israel. He called the people to continue to obey and worship only God. Samuel called down thunder and rain from heaven to show the power and might of God that day. The people were terrified. Samuel again called them to remain faithful to God (1 Samuel 12). After Saul was king for some time, Samuel was forced to rebuke Saul for his rebellion and disobedience. Eventually, Samuel brought the news to Saul that God had rejected him as king! (1 Samuel 13:8-14; 1 Samuel 15). After Samuel had mourned for Saul, God told Samuel to go to Bethlehem and anoint David as King of Israel in Saul's place. The Spirit of God came powerfully upon David. Samuel returned to his home in Ramah (1 Samuel 16). \"Now Samuel died, and all Israel gathered for his funeral. They buried him at his house in Ramah.\" (\"1 Samuel:25:1\").", "profile life lessons": "Learn how to discern the voice of God.", "profile key scripture": "\"Meanwhile, the boy Samuel grew taller and grew in favor with the LORD.\""
"profile name": "The Book of Revelation", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The Book of Revelation gives us a little look into the hidden things of God. Reading it is like peeking into the future (and the present) through a curtain that has been drawn back slightly. The type of literature or writing in Revelation is called Apocalyptic. This comes from the Greek word, \"Apocalypse,\" meaning \"unveiling\" or \"disclosure.\" Examples of Apocalyptic literature in the Old Testament include Daniel (chapters 7-12), Isaiah (chapters 24-27), Ezekiel (chapters 37-41), and Zechariah (chapters 9-12). The Book of Revelation uses symbols, images, and numbers to describe the end of the present age and the coming of God's future kingdom. One reason why the writer uses imagery is that the book was written in dangerous religious and political times, and it was safer to hide the message in images than to speak plainly. The images and the symbolism give the book a feeling of mystery, but the purpose of the book was not to confuse readers. It was written to inform and encourage readers in the face of opposition. The main theme of Revelation is that there are two warring powers: God and Satan. The overall message is that God is all-powerful. God's majesty and power are shown in the images of the throne and the angelic choruses who bow before the throne and call Him God Almighty. Jesus Christ, the rider on the white horse, is the central figure in the army of God the King. Nothing the devil (Satan) can do (no matter how strong) can stop the purposes of God from being fulfilled. In the final battle, Satan and his followers are completely destroyed by fire from heaven (\"Revelation:20:7-10\"). The Book of Revelation contains seven visions: 1. Christ encourages the earthly Church to remain loyal (\"Revelation:1-3\"). 2. Christ the Lamb opens seven seals on a scroll which hold the destinies of individuals and nations, including disasters (\"Revelation:4-7\"). 3. Seven angels blow trumpets, and more disasters occur (\"Revelation:8-11\"). 4. The vision that symbolizes the persecution of the Church (\"Revelation:12-14\"). 5. The vision in which seven bowls pour out God's wrath (\"Revelation:15-16\"). 6. The vision about the judgment of Babylon (which symbolizes the world in rebellion) (\"Revelation:17:1\" through \"Revelation:19:10\"). 7. The final vision about the final victory, final judgment, and final blessing (\"Revelation:19:11\" through \"Revelation:22\" author of the Book of Revelation is believed to be John, the apostle who was exiled to the island of Patmos (\"Revelation:1:9\"). It was probably written between A.D. 81-96, when the Roman Emperor Domitian reigned.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "This is a revelation from Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants the events that must soon take place."
"profile name": "Priesthood of Israel", "profile description": "The priesthood of Ancient Israel was the class of male individuals, descended from Aaron (the elder brother of Moses), who served in the Tabernacle, Solomon's Temple and the Second Temple until the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. The priests oversaw the sacrifices and offerings under the Law of Moses. This includes the Passover sacrifice, sin offering, guilt offering, release of the scapegoat, burnt offering, peace offering, red heifer, heave offering, meal offering, dough offering, drink offering, incense offering, thank offering, and more throughout the religious calendar. ", "profile bible infoscan": "The priests of Ancient Israel were men who came from the Levite tribe. They were also descendants from Aaron. (\"Exodus:28:1\"). Exodus 40:15 says, \"And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father [Aaron], that they may minister unto me in the priest's office: for their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.\" The first priest mentioned in the Bible is Melchizedek, who was a priest of the Most High, and who ministered in the time of Abraham. (\"Genesis:14:18-20\"). Priests oversaw the sacrifices and offerings under the Law of Moses. It was one of the priest's duties to keep the incense burning on the altar in front of the Most Holy Place in the Temple. The priests supplied the altar with fresh incense before the morning sacrifice and again after the evening sacrifice. As with Zechariah, the assignment to burn incense was determined by casting lots. This meant a priest might never have been chosen to perform this task honored assignment in his lifetime. For Zechariah to have been chosen to enter the holy place and burn the incense at the time Gabriel was to announce the birth of their son was surely an act of God. (Luke 18-11). Some other duties of the priests included blessing God's people, collecting tithes, and reading God's Law to the people. (Numbers 6:22-26; Deuteronomy 31: 9-12; Hebrews 7:5; Nehemiah 8:2-3). When a priest sinned, he brought guilt upon himself and upon the entire community. (\"Leviticus:4:3\"). The priest with the greatest authority was \"the high priest\" or \"the chief priest.\" Beginning with Aaron, the high priest alone was able to enter the Holy of Holies and only then on the Day of Atonement (\"Leviticus:16:2\"). The high priest served as the head of Jerusalem. Hebrews 9:7 says, \"But only the high priest ever entered the Most Holy Place, and only once a year. And he always offered blood for his own sins and for the sins the people had committed in ignorance.\" The Levites were members of the same tribe, but were not descendants of Aaron. They served as Temple assistants to the priests and did different jobs to assist them. The Levites took care of the temple and served as musicians, singers, gatekeepers, and helped prepare the sacrifices. They also read the Book of the Law to the people and explained the meaning to them (\"Nehemiah:8:7-8\"). The role of the priest is no longer necessary today because of Jesus. He is God's perfect sacrifice that took away the sin of the world. When Jesus died, the Temple veil or curtain was torn in two giving all believers in Christ access into the Holy of Holies, the very presence of God! \"So then, since we have a great High Priest who has entered heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold firmly to what we believe. This High Priest of ours understands our weaknesses, for He faced all of the same testings we do, yet He did not sin. So let us come boldly to the throne of our gracious God. There we will receive his mercy, and we will find grace to help us when we need it most.\" (Hebrews 4:14-16; Hebrews 9:11-12; 1 Timothy 2:5; Matthew 27:51). Because of Christ, we are called holy and royal priests. The Bible calls us living stones that are built up into His spiritual temple. (\"1 Peter:2:5\").", "profile life lessons": "God has a plan for each of our lives and He wants us to discover that plan and live it out in obedience to Him.", "profile key scripture": "One day Zechariah was serving God in the Temple, for his order was on duty that week. 9 As was the custom of the priests, he was chosen by lot to enter the sanctuary of the Lord and burn incense."
"profile name": "Joseph", "profile description": "Joseph was the eleventh and favorite son born to Jacob. Joseph was sold into slavery by his older brothers who were filled with jealousy and hatred toward him. Joseph trusted God through difficult times and God blessed him and gave him favor in Egypt. Joseph's integrity and wisdom from God btrought him favor with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. He went from slave to prisoner and then to governor of Egypt! Joseph forgave his brothers and the family was reunited to live in Egypt together. God worked His plan for Joseph's life and in so doing, many people's lives were saved during the famine. ", "profile bible infoscan": "The Book of Genesis tells that Joseph was the 11th of Jacob's twelve sons and Rachel's firstborn. He lived in the land of Canaan with the other sons of Jacob (also called Israel). Joseph had ten half-brothers, one full brother, and one half-sister. Joseph was Jacob's favorite son whom he loved more than the other children. This was because Joseph was born when Jacob was older and he was also the first child that Jacob had with Rachel, whom he loved very much. Jacob didn't help matters by giving Joseph a beautiful robe as a special gift. The other brothers couldn't say a kind thing to Joseph and they actually hated him. Joseph also didn't help the situation by being a tattle-tale. He sometimes reported to Jacob some of the bad things his brothers did. (\"Genesis:37:2-3\"). When Joseph was seventeen years old, he had two dreams that were prophetic dreams from God. The dreams predicted what would come to pass in the future for Joseph and his family's life. The dreams showed Joseph ruling over his family. His brothers and parents even bowed down to him! As you can imagine, when Joseph shared the dreams with his family, they were not pleased. Jacob rebuked Joseph and said, \"Will your mother and I and your brothers actually come and bow down to the ground before you?\" (\"Genesis:37:10\"). From that point on, his brothers became even more jealous of him, and Jacob wondered what the dreams meant. (\"Genesis:37:5-11\"). In fact, this was the last straw for his brothers; they even plotted to kill Joseph! One day Jacob sent Joseph to check on his brothers as they tended their flocks of sheep. When they saw Joseph coming, they planned to kill him. The oldest brother Reuben did not want Joseph to die. He suggested throwing Joseph into an empty cistern or pit that normally held water. So, the brothers grabbed Joseph, stripped him of his colorful robe and threw him into the cistern. Joseph's brothers then sold Joseph as a slave to some Midianite traders traveling to Egypt. The brothers then dipped Joseph's robe in goat's blood to deceive their father into believing Joseph had been attacked and killed by a wild animal. Their evil plan worked; Jacob mourned deeply for a long time and refused to be comforted by his sons. (\"Genesis:37:12-35\"). When the Midianite traders arrived in Egypt, they sold Joseph as a slave to Potiphar, the captain of Pharaoh's guard. While serving in Potiphar's household, God was with Joseph. Potiphar noticed that God brought success in everything Joseph did. Joseph found favor in the sight of Potiphar and he put him in charge of his entire household and made Joseph his personal attendant. Things were finally looking up for Joseph. \"Genesis:37:6\" says, \"So Potiphar gave Joseph complete administrative responsibility over everything he owned. With Joseph there, he didn't worry about a thing - except what kind of food to eat!\" Sadly and unfairly this came to an end. Joseph was a man of integrity, and refused to sin against Potiphar and God, however, Potiphar's wife made a false accusation against Joseph. Potiphar believed his wife and was furious. He immediately threw Joseph into prison. (\"Genesis:39:1-20\"). But once again, God was with Joseph and gave him favor with man. \"Genesis:39:21-23\" says, \"But the Lord was with Joseph in the prison and showed him his faithful love. And the Lord made Joseph a favorite with the prison warden. Before long, the warden put Joseph in charge of all the other prisoners and over everything that happened in the prison. The warden had no more worries, because Joseph took care of everything. The Lord was with him and caused everything he did to succeed.\" Even though Joseph was once again treated unfairly, he continued to honor God and did his best wherever he found himself. Because Joseph trusted God, instead of being bitter and complaining about his unjust treatment, God was able to bless Joseph's life. (\"Genesis:39:2-23\"). By God's wisdom, Joseph accurately interpreted the dreams of two other prisoners. One man, who was the king's cupbearer, is released from jail and restored to his position. He then forgets to tell the king about Joseph, as he had requested. Two years later though, the king had two dreams that deeply troubled him. None of his wise men could help him. The cupbearer remembered how Joseph had interpreted his dream in prison. The king calls for Joseph and by God's wisdom, he correctly reveals the meaning of the dreams. The dreams represented how God would give seven years of prosperity followed by seven years of famine in Egypt. Joseph then advises the king to find a wise man to be in charge of all the land of Egypt to have the grain gathered and stored during the years of prosperity. Then, there would be plenty of food to distribute when the years of famine came. Pharaoh received what Joseph recommended. \"So Pharaoh asked his officials, \"Can we find anyone else like this man so obviously filled with the spirit of God?\" Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, \"Since God has revealed the meaning of the dreams to you, clearly no one else is as intelligent or wise as you are. You will be in charge of my court, and all my people will take orders from you. Only I, sitting on my throne, will have a rank higher than yours.\" Pharaoh said to Joseph, \"I hereby put you in charge of the entire land of Egypt.\" (\"Genesis:41:37\"). Just like that, Joseph went from prisoner to second in command in all of Egypt. All this happened because God was working His master plan in Joseph's life. Joseph was 30 years old when he began serving in the court of Pharaoh. Pharaoh also gave Joseph a wife. During the years of prosperity, two sons were born to Joseph and his wife. \"Genesis:41:51\" says, \"Joseph named his older son Manasseh, for he said, \"God has made me forget all my troubles and everyone in my father's family.\" Joseph named his second son Ephraim, for he said, \"God has made me fruitful in this land of my grief.\"(\"Genesis:41:1-52\"). When the years of famine came as Joseph had predicted, the famine spread to Canaan and Joseph's brothers were sent to Egypt by Jacob to buy grain to eat. This is where they would later discover that their brother, who they sold into slavery, was not only still alive but now the second most powerful man in the nation. The brothers all bowed before Joseph as God had prophesied in the dreams many years before. Joseph eventually revealed his true identity after conducting many tests on his brothers to see if they had changed for the good. Joseph forgives their cruelty and crimes against him. Joseph came to understand God's plan over the years, and he revealed the plan to his brothers. \"Please, come closer,\" he said to them. So they came closer. And he said again, \"I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into slavery in Egypt. God has sent me ahead of you to keep you and your families alive and to preserve many survivors. So it was God who sent me here, not you! And He is the one who made me an adviser to Pharaoh - the manager of his entire palace and the governor of all Egypt.\" (\"Genesis:45:7-8\"). Joseph is reunited with Benjamin, his youngest brother, and his father. The family moves to Egypt with Pharaoh's blessing. Jacob's descendants stay in Egypt for 400 years, until the time of Moses. When Moses leads the Hebrews out of Egypt, he takes the remains of Joseph with him, as Joseph had requested (\"Genesis:50:24-25\" ; \"Exodus:13:19\"). \"Joshua:24:32\" describes Joseph's final resting place. \"The bones of Joseph, which the Israelites had brought along with them when they left Egypt, were buried at Shechem, in the plot of land Jacob had bought from the sons of Hamor for 100 pieces of silver. This land was located in the territory allotted to the descendants of Joseph.\"", "profile life lessons": "God's favor in our lives brings success.", "profile key scripture": "You intended to harm me, but God intended it all for good. He brought me to this position so I could save the lives of many people."
"profile name": "Judas Iscariot", "profile description": "Judas Iscariot was one of Jesus' 12 disciples. He was the appointed treasurer for the disciples, but he did not understand that Jesus' kingdom was a heavenly one and not an earthly one. He became disillusioned and dishonest. After the Passover supper, Judas betrayed Jesus. Because of the guilt he felt from this act, he killed himself (instead of asking Jesus to forgive him).", "profile bible infoscan": "Judas Iscariot was one of Jesus' twelve disciples. He was the son of Simon Iscariot (\"John:6:71\") (John 6:71). The word \"Iscariot\" refers to his hometown of Kerioth in southern Judah. Judas was the only one of Jesus' twelve disciples who was not from Galilee. \"Iscariot\" is used to separate him from the other disciple named Judas (\"Luke:6:16\"). Judas Iscariot was the treasurer for the disciples. He believed that Jesus would establish a kingdom on earth. Judas became unhappy and dishonest when it became clear that Jesus ' kingdom was a heavenly one. He often stole money from the funds that he kept for the disciples. (John 12:4-8; John 13:29). During the week of the Passover festival, Judas went to the chief priests. He offered to betray Jesus for a reward of thirty pieces of silver (\"Matthew:26:14-16\"). Jesus was not surprised by Judas' plot. He revealed the plan as the disciples ate together for the last time. \"Now Jesus was deeply troubled, and he exclaimed, \"I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me!\" The disciples looked at each other, wondering whom he could mean. The disciple Jesus loved was sitting next to Jesus at the table. Simon Peter motioned to him to ask, \"Who's he talking about?\" So that disciple leaned over to Jesus and asked, \"Lord, who is it?\" Jesus responded, \"It is the one to whom I give the bread I dip in the bowl.\" And when he had dipped it, he gave it to Judas, son of Simon Iscariot. When Judas had eaten the bread, Satan entered into him. Then Jesus told him, \"Hurry and do what you're going to do.\" None of the others at the table knew what Jesus meant. Since Judas was their treasurer, some thought Jesus was telling him to go and pay for the food or to give some money to the poor. So Judas left at once, going out into the night.\" (\"John:13:21-30\"). After the Passover supper, Judas betrayed Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane with a kiss, and Jesus was arrested. Judas was overcome with guilt by what he had done. He returned to the Jewish leaders and told them he had sinned by betraying an innocent man! Judas tried to return the money to the chief priests, who refused to take it. So, he threw the money on the floor and went out and hanged himself. The leaders of the priests determined the money could not be put back into the Temple treasury since it was used to pay for murder. They used it to buy a potter's field to be used as a cemetery. (\"Matthew:27:3-10\" ; \"Acts:1:17-19\"). After Judas' death, another disciple named Matthias was chosen to replace Judas.(\"Acts:1:26\").", "profile life lessons": "Stop bad thoughts before they become evil plans.", "profile key scripture": "\"Then Satan entered into Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve disciples, and he went to the leading priests and captains of the Temple guard to discuss the best way to betray Jesus to them.\""
"profile name": "Michal", "profile description": "Michal was the younger daughter of King Saul and Ahinoam. Her older sister was named Merab (\"1 Samuel:14:49\"). Michal became the first wife of David after David killed 200 Philistines for her hand in marriage. Saul had intended for David to be killed, not to be victorious (\"1 Samuel:18:19\"). ", "profile bible infoscan": "Michal was the younger daughter of King Saul and Ahinoam. Her older sister was named Merab (\"1 Samuel:14:49\"). Michal became the first wife of David after David killed 200 Philistines for her hand in marriage. Saul had intended for David to be killed, not to be victorious (\"1 Samuel:18:29\"). Michal warned David that he father was going to kill him. She helped David to escape from a window in their house to flee from Saul's men that came to kill David (\"1 Samuel:19:17\"). For revenge, Saul gave Michal to a man named Palti (\"1 Samuel:25:44\"). After Saul died, David made a pact with Saul's general, named Abner. One important condition of the pact was that Michal must be given back to David. When Michal left, Palti followed her and wept before returning home (\"1 Samuel:3:14\"). Years later, after David became king and defeated the Philistine armies, David ordered that the Ark of God be returned to Jerusalem. \"And David danced before the LORD with all his might, wearing a priestly garment. So David and all the people of Israel brought up the Ark of the Lord with shouts of joy and the blowing of rams' horns.\" Not everyone appreciated David's worship. Michal watched from a window and was embarrassed and disgusted by David's worship. When David returned home, Michal came to meet him and told him how foolish and careless he had been. As punishment, Michael was never allowed to bear children (\"2 Samuel:6:14\").", "profile life lessons": "Help others when possible.", "profile key scripture": "\"So Michal, the daughter of Saul, remained childless throughout her entire life.\""
"profile name": "Mary", "profile description": "Mary, Jesus' mother, was the only person present at Jesus' birth who witnessed His death. At His crucifixion, Jesus gave Mary into the care of John. John took Mary to his home. She was to be his \"mother\" and he would be her \"son\" (John 19:26-27).", "profile bible infoscan": "When the angel Gabriel visited Mary to tell her she was going to have a baby (God's Son) by the power of the Holy Spirit, she submitted to God's will. Her response was, \"I am the Lord's servant. May everything you have said about me come true\" (\"Luke:1:38\"). She made herself available to God. After the events surrounding Jesus' birth, when the shepherds had visited Jesus, Mary \"kept all these things in her heart and thought about them often\" (\"Luke:2:19\"). Mary was devout, and she, together with her husband Joseph, followed the Jewish law. They took Jesus to the Temple as a baby to be dedicated to God. At the temple, Simeon said something to Mary that she must have thought about all through His life: \"And a sword will pierce your very soul\" (\"Luke:2:35\"). Mary was the only person present at Jesus' birth who witnessed His death. At His crucifixion, Jesus gave Mary into the care of John. John took Mary to his home. She was to be his \"mother\" and he would be her \"son\" (\"John:19:26-27\").", "profile life lessons": "Have a servant heart.", "profile key scripture": "\"Mary responded, 'I am the Lord's servant. May everything you have said about me come true.' And then the angel left her.\""
"profile name": "Jericho", "profile description": "The Israelites crossed the Jordan River and faced the city of Jericho hidden behind its massive walls. The people in the city felt protected until they heard about all God had done for His people. Rahab told the spies that their hearts now melted in fear! When the city walls collapsed by God's power, the Israelites captured and burned the entire city except for some special items reserved for God. Jesus walked through the crowds of Jericho and spotted a man in a tree. This man was not liked because he was a tax collector who cheated the people in Jericho.", "profile bible infoscan": "Jericho is believed to be one of the oldest inhabited cities in the world. Located at the lower Jordan Valley on the west side of the Jordan River. It is 825 feet below sea level. Jericho is described in the Old Testament as the \"City of Palm Trees.\" It had abundant fresh water springs in and around the city. It was considered to be an oasis in the desert. (\"Deuteronomy:34:3\" ; \"Genesis:13:10\" ; \"Judges:1:16\"). Jericho is best known for its massive stone walls that surrounded and protected the city. Joshua 6:1 says the people were afraid of the Israelites. \"Now the gates of Jericho were tightly shut because the people were afraid of the Israelites. No one was allowed to go out or in.\" But the Lord said to Joshua, \"I have given you Jericho, its king, and all its strong warriors. (\"Joshua:6:1-2\"). Joshua and the Israelites marched around the city and the walls collapsed. In obedience to God's direction, the Israelites destroyed the inhabitants of the city - with the exception of Rahab and her family, who were saved. The soldiers were ordered to take only the gold, silver, and the vessels of brass and iron for God. Everything else was forbidden to take. The city was then burned. (\"Joshua:6:8-24\"). Joshua pronounced a curse of the Lord upon anyone who tried to rebuild the town of Jericho! (\"Joshua:6:26\"). God confirmed the words of Joshua by taking the lives of two men who began the rebuilding of Jericho. (\"1 Kings:16:34\"). Elisha traveled with Elijah to Jericho before he was taken to heaven in a whirlwind. Elisha also performed a miracle in Jericho to purify the water supply there. (2 Kings 2). In New Testament times, Jesus entered Jericho and famously called Zacchaeus down from the Sycamore tree to be a guest in his home. (\"Luke:9:1-10\"). He also healed blind Bartimaeus outside of the city. (\"Mark:10:46-52\")", "profile life lessons": "If God makes a promise to you, you can move forward in faith, knowing that He will be faithful to fulfill His word.", "profile key scripture": "The seventh time around, as the priests sounded the long blast on their horns, Joshua commanded the people, \"Shout! For the Lord has given you the town!"
"profile name": "Capernaum", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "After being rejected in his hometown of Nazareth, Jesus made Capernaum the center of His ministry. Capernaum means \"the village of Nahum,\" and it was the most important city on the northern shore of the Sea of Galilee in New Testament times. It was large enough to be called a city (\"Matthew:9:1\"), and it had its own synagogue in which Jesus often taught (\"Mark:1:21\" , \"Luke:4:31\" , \"John:6:59\"). It appears that the synagogue was built by the Roman soldiers when they were stationed in Capernaum, and it was the center for the Roman system of taxation (\"Matthew:9:9\" , \"Matthew:17:24\"). As he walked by the Sea of Galilee near Capernaum, Jesus called His disciples to follow Him. It was also in \"his own city\" that Jesus called Matthew the tax collector (\"Matthew:9:1-9\" , \"Mark:2:13-14\"). Jesus performed many miracles in Capernaum, including the healing of the centurion's paralyzed servant (\"Matthew:8:5-13\"), the paralytic carried by four friends (\"Mark:2:1-12\"), Peter's mother-in-law (\"Mark:1:29-31\"), and the government official's son (\"John:4:46-54\"). Although Capernaum was the center of Jesus' ministry, the people of that city did not follow Jesus. Because of their unbelief, Jesus pronounced a curse on the city and predicted its ruin (\"Luke:10:15\"). This prophecy came true, and recently Tell Hum has been positively identified as ancient Capernaum.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"And you people of Capernaum, will you be honored in heaven? No, you will go down to the place of the dead.\""
"profile name": "Paul in Chains", "profile description": "As a prisoner, Paul had to face the authorities in Rome. Before getting there, he faced one disaster after another, and when the journey seemed most dire, God gave him the strength to carry on and even minister to others in their darkest hours. Paul wrote four New Testament books of the Bible while under arrest in Rome as he he waited to stand before Nero. Paul knew that he would receive a great reward from God when his time ended on the earth.", "profile bible infoscan": "Saul, the son of a Pharisee (\"Acts:23:6\"), was born in Tarsus, an important Greek city. He was brought up in the strict Jewish culture, and he learned the trade of leather-work and tent-making. He went to Jerusalem where he studied under Gamaliel, a famous teacher who taught Jewish laws and customs. He was a brilliant scholar who had a great future as one of the leading Pharisees. (\"Acts:22:3\"). Saul believed that those who followed Jesus told lies about God and were a threat to the Jewish religion. He made it his mission to stamp out Christianity. He got letters of authority from the Jewish leaders to arrest any Christians he found and to put them in prison. But on the road to Damascus, Saul had a personal encounter with Jesus and became a follower himself. Besides being Jewish, he was also a Roman citizen, and after he became a Christian, he was referred to by his Roman name, Paul (\"Acts:13:9\"). He realized that Jesus Christ was the promised Messiah, the Son of God, and that faith in Him, and not in the Jewish law, was how a person was made right in God's eyes. When Saul became Paul, he didn't just have a name change. His life turned around 180 degrees. He went from being a Christian-hater to being a leader among Christ-followers. (\"Acts:9:1\"). Paul became a great preacher of the Gospel and teacher of Christianity. He made three main missionary journeys (Acts 13-21), preaching, establishing, and then visiting churches in different parts of the Roman Empire. His preaching caused riots (Acts 19) and offended the Jewish leaders. A man named Agabus with a prophetic gift prophesied of Paul being bound in chains. \"Acts:21:11\" says, \"He came over, took Paul's belt, and bound his own feet and hands with it. Then he said, \"The Holy Spirit declares, 'So shall the owner of this belt be bound by the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem and turned over to the Gentiles.\" Paul was not fazed and vowed to continue his work even if it meant being arrested and killed. (\"Acts:21:10-14\"). In Jerusalem, Paul was attacked by a mob and dragged from the Temple. They accused him of defiling the Temple by bringing a Gentile into it. They also falsely accused him of telling people to disobey the Jewish laws. Paul was arrested and bound in chains by the Roman soldiers. The prophecy by Agabus had been fulfilled already! (\"Acts:21:26-36\"). While under arrest, Paul appeared before the Roman Governor Felix in Caesarea and testified of his faith in Jesus Christ. He stayed in prison for over two years before he appeared before the new governor named Festus and then he even testified before King Agrippa! Both men decided that Paul had done nothing worthy of death and would have let him go, except Paul had appealed to Caesar to hear his case. So, Paul was now off to Rome! (Acts 24-26). Paul and other prisoners were placed under custody of a Roman officer named Julius as they traveled by ship to Rome. Julius was kind to Paul and allowed him to go ashore when they docked in Sidon to visit friends who cared for Paul's needs. Along the way, a terrible storm battered their ship for several days. Paul had told the ship's captain and the officers to turn back but they would not listen. An angel appeared to Paul one night. Paul encouraged the passengers and crew of the ship with what the angel told him. \"For last night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood beside me, and he said, 'Don't be afraid, Paul, for you will surely stand trial before Caesar! What's more, God in his goodness has granted safety to everyone sailing with you.' So take courage! For I believe God. It will be just as he said. But we will be shipwrecked on an island.\" (\"Acts:27:23-26\"). Again, the prophecy was fulfilled; they were shipwrecked and swam safely to the shore of a tiny island called Malta. (Acts 27:27-44). On the island, Paul survived a poisonous snake bite and by God's power, healed all who were sick on the island. This included the father of the chief official of the island, Publius. Three months later, they sailed again on a new ship toward Rome. (Acts 28:1-8). When Paul arrived in Rome, he was allowed to stay in his own home and was guarded by a soldier. For the next two years, Paul received people into his home and boldly testified about the Kingdom of God and no one tried to stop him! This man whom God changed much did much to change the world for God. (\"Acts:28:9-31\"). When Paul arrived in Rome, he was under house arrest and chained to a Roman guard. For the next two years, as he waited to appear before Caesar (Nero), Paul received people into his home and boldly testified about the Kingdom of God. No one tried to stop him! (\"Acts:28:9-31\"). During Paul's second imprisonment in the Mamertine dungeon, he was awaiting a final trial. Mamertine was a filthy and vile dungeon which was where criminals were held for a short time before they were executed. Paul did not expect to be released from this dungeon and said his final farewells to his trusted ministry friends and partners (\"2 Timothy:4:6-22\"). It was during his time in Rome that He wrote the New Testament Epistles (letters): Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, and Philemon. Paul said in (\"2 Timothy:4:6\"): \"For I am already being poured out like a drink offering, and the time for my departure is near. Paul's execution is believed by many to have been eventually carried out be Nero. As we read a list of Paul's persecutions and sufferings in (\"2 Corinthians:11:16-33\"), we know that no matter what affliction or trial Paul encountered, He remained faithful to finish the race that was set before him by God. His life was indeed poured out for the sake of the Gospel. (\"2 Timothy:4:7-8\") says. \"I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Now there is in store for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will award to me on that day - and not only to me, but also to all who have longed for His appearing.\" (\"2 Timothy:4:6-8\").", "profile life lessons": "When we are weak God's grace is strong.", "profile key scripture": "Yes, I try to find common ground with everyone, doing everything I can to save some."
"profile name": "God", "profile description": "Wow! My synapses are snapping with amazing data about God. You probably think you know a lot about Him - but there are ALWAYS surprising new things to discover about God! God existed \"in the beginning\" and created all things (\"Genesis:1:1\"). One way we can learn about God is by looking at what He has created (\"Psalms:19:1\" , \"Romans:1:19-20\"). The greatest revelation of God is through the Bible and through His Son, Jesus Christ. God has given us the Bible, which records what He has done and what His plans and purposes are. God revealed himself to us through His Son, Jesus Christ: Jesus said that to know Him is to know God, and \"he who has seen me has seen the Father\" (\"John:14:7-9\").", "profile bible infoscan": "God has always existed. He existed \"in the beginning\" and created all things (\"Genesis:1:1\"). One way we can learn about God is by looking at what He has created (\"Psalms:19:1\" , \"Romans:1:19-20\"). The greatest revelation of God is through the Bible, and through His Son, Jesus Christ. God has given us the Bible, which records what He has done and what His plans and purposes are. God revealed Himself to us through His Son, Jesus Christ, who said that to know Him is to know God, and \"he who has seen me has seen the Father\" (\"John:14:7-9\"). When we love and obey Jesus, God promises to live in us by His Holy Spirit (\"John:14:15-17\"). The God of the Bible is the one and only God (\"Mark:12:29\") who has revealed Himself to us as God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit (\"Mark:1:10-11\"). Although we cannot fully understand God, we can know Him through a personal relationship with Jesus Christ (\"John:3:16\" , \"John:15:14-15\"). When we invite Him into our hearts, God will live in us and help us through His Holy Spirit (\"John:14:15-17\"). God may be described in terms of His attributes or characteristics: God is All-Powerful (omnipotent) (\"Luke:1:37\" , \"Job:42:2\"), All-Knowing (omniscient) (\"Psalms:147:5\"), and is Everywhere (omnipresent) (\"Psalms:139:7-12\"). God is Spirit - God has no physical body. He is invisible but became a physical human being -- fully God and fully man -- when He revealed Himself to us through His Son, Jesus Christ (\"John:4:24\"). God is Changeless - God always has been and always will be the same (\"Hebrews:1:12\" , \"James:1:17\"). God is Eternal -- God has existed before all things and will always exist (\"Revelation:1:8\"). God is Holy - There is no-one like Him (\"1 Samuel:2:2\"), and He is pure in all things (\"Psalms:24:3-5\" , \"Isaiah:6:3-5\"). God is Righteous and Just - Everything God does is always right and fair (\"Isaiah:45:21\" , \"Psalms:116:5\" , \"Psalms:25:8\"). God is Love (\"1 John:4:8\"), Truth (\"Deuteronomy:32:4\" , \"John:8:31-32\"), Good (\"Nahum:1:7\"), Kind (\"Luke:6:35\"), Sovereign (\"Romans:9:20\"), Patient (\"2 Peter:3:9\"), Faithful (\"1 Corinthians:1:9\"), Wrathful (\"Nahum:1:2\"), and Merciful (\"Psalms:86:15\" , \"Lamentations:3:33\"). God is a Creative and Personal being who created us to know Him and have a relationship with Him (\"Genesis:1:31\" , \"John:15:14-15\" , \"Mark:12:30\" , \"1 Timothy:2:4\" , \"Genesis:17:1\" , \"Genesis:6:9\" , \"John:3:16\"). As we read the Bible and spend time with God each day, we will discover many more of His wonderful attributes.", "profile life lessons": "Understand that God created everything, and nothing exists without Him.", "profile key scripture": "In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth."
"profile name": "Babylon/Ishtar Gate", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The name Babylon is the Greek form of the Hebrew word \"babel,\" which means \"confused.\" Geography: Babylon, the capital of the ancient land Babylonia in Mesopotamia, was once a great city situated on the Euphrates River. It was about fifty miles south of modern Baghdad. Archeologists discovered the ruins of this huge city in the 19th century. Babylonia was a long, narrow country that covered an area of about 8,000 square miles. At its widest point, it was about 40 miles! It was bordered by Assyria (north), Elam (east), the Arabian Desert (south and west), and the Persian Gulf (southeast). History: Abraham lived in Ur, an ancient city in Babylon, and moved to Haran. From there he moved to the land of Canaan. He obeyed God's command and believed God's promise that he would become the father of a great nation (\"Genesis:12:0\" From about 1270 BC, Assyria became the leading power in the ancient world. However, Babylonia became independent again around 626 BC under the leadership of Nabopolassar. The Babylonian empire became the dominant power in the Near East and entered into her \"golden age.\" In 605 BC, Nebuchadnezzar ll, the son of Nabolpolassar, became king and ruled for 44 years. He conquered other nations, took their treasures, and built Babylon into one of the greatest cities of the world. The famous hanging gardens of Babylon were known to the Greeks as one of the seven wonders of the world. In 587 BC, the Babylonians destroyed Jerusalem and took the leading citizens captive to Babylon. Daniel was one of these captives. During this 70-year captivity, the Persians conquered Babylonia and became the leading power instead. Religion: Throughout their history, the Babylonians achieved a high level of civilization. Their religion centered around temples where they worshiped various gods and goddesses, including Ishtar, the goddess of love and war. The Ishtar Gate, one of the eight entrances to the inner city of Babylon, was built during the reign of Nebuchadnezzar ll (605-562 BC). It was dedicated to the Babylonian goddess Ishtar. It was actually a double gate, constructed of blue glazed tiles with rows of dragons and aurochs (a type of large, wild cattle). The doors and roofs of the gate were made of cedar wood. The walls, which lined the Processional Way that ran through the gate, were covered in lions on glazed bricks. Originally the gate, as part of the Walls of Babylon, was considered one of the Seven Wonders of the World. However, in the 6th century AD, the Lighthouse of Alexandria took the title.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Then the watchman said, 'Babylon is fallen! All the idols of Babylon lie broken on the ground'.\""
"profile name": "The Lions' Den", "profile description": "The Lions' den is exactly what it sounds like: a pit full of lions. In the time of Daniel, this was the place to which prisoners were taken to their death.", "profile bible infoscan": "The lions' den is exactly what it sounds like: a pit full of lions. In the time of Daniel, this was the place where prisoners were taken to their death. We don't know exactly what the den looked like, but from the story of Daniel, we know that there was more than one lion (\"Daniel:6:12\") and that a stone was brought and placed over the mouth of the den. The king sealed the stone with his royal seal and the seals of his nobles so that no one could rescue Daniel from the lions (\"Daniel:6:17\"). The den was possibly a large pit with an opening at the top as \"the king ordered that Daniel be lifted from the den\" (\"Daniel:6:23\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"So at last the king gave orders for Daniel to be arrested and thrown into the den of lions. The king said to him, 'May your God, whom you serve so faithfully, rescue you.'\""
"profile name": "Pentecost", "profile description": "In the city of Jerusalem on the Day of Pentecost, 50 days after the resurrection of Jesus (\"Acts:1\" see the disciples of Jesus who are together in unity and prayer, waiting for the promised Holy Spirit. Suddenly, there was a sound from heaven like the roaring of a mighty windstorm, and it filled the house where they were sitting. Then, what looked like flames or tongues of fire appeared and settled on each of them. And everyone present was filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking in other languages. Filled with the power of the Holy Spirit, Peter preached to the gathered crowd and 3,000 people believed and were baptized (\"Acts:2:41\"). ", "profile bible infoscan": "The Jewish people had celebrated the festival of Pentecost for hundreds of years before Jesus was born. It is one of the three major Jewish feasts and also called the Feast of Weeks, the Feast of Harvest, and the Day of First Fruits. The day of Pentecost was the fiftieth day after the Sabbath of Passover week. Pentecost comes from the Greek word for fifty. It occurs 50 days after the Passover and celebrates the end of the grain harvest. It is celebrated in the month of Sivan which is May and June. Believers from all over come to Jerusalem for the Passover celebration. This is what was taking place when the Holy Spirit suddenly came as promised. \"Acts:2:1-4\" says, \"On the day of Pentecost all the believers were meeting together in one place. Suddenly, there was a sound from heaven like the roaring of a mighty windstorm, and it filled the house where they were sitting. Then, what looked like flames or tongues of fire appeared and settled on each of them. And everyone present was filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking in other languages, as the Holy Spirit gave them this ability. \"Acts:2:5-12\" says, \"At that time there were devout Jews from every nation living in Jerusalem. When they heard the loud noise, everyone came running, and they were bewildered to hear their own languages being spoken by the believers. They were completely amazed. \"How can this be?\" they exclaimed. \"These people are all from Galilee, and yet we hear them speaking in our own native languages! Here we are - Parthians, Medes, Elamites, people from Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus, the province of Asia, 10 Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, and the areas of Libya around Cyrene, visitors from Rome (both Jews and converts to Judaism), Cretans, and Arabs. And we all hear these people speaking in our own languages about the wonderful things God has done!\" They stood there amazed and perplexed. \"What can this mean?\" they asked each other.\" At this point the Spirit prompted Peter to boldly stand to explain what they were seeing, and to preach the Gospel to the crowd. Over 3000 people became believers and were baptized that day! The Day of Pentecost is still celebrated today all over the world. It reminds us of the power that we have inside to tell others about Jesus and to enable us to live obediently to God's Word.", "profile life lessons": "God can bless you with the Holy Spirit.", "profile key scripture": "\"Then, what looked like flames or tongues of fire appeared and settled on each of them.\""
"profile name": "Peniel", "profile description": "As Gideon and his 300 men chased after their enemies, they passed through Peniel. Gideon asked for food for his exhausted and hungry army. The people of Peniel refused to give them food until Gideon caught the enemy he as chasing. Gideon did capture the enemy; and in anger he returned to tear down the tower of Peniel and kill all of their men for their cruelty.", "profile bible infoscan": "Peniel is a city on the east of the Jordan River in the plain north of the river close to Succoth. (\"1 Joshua:13:27\"). It is also called \"Penuel\" by Jacob, meaning \"face of God.\" In \"Genesis:32:30\" , Jacob said, \"I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been spared.\" It is at Peniel where Jacob wrestled all night with God (\"Genesis:32:24-32\") until daybreak. Sometime after this event, a town was built there (Judges 8:8, 1 Kings 12:25). When Gideon and his men were in pursuit of the Midianites, the people of the town refused to give bread until he captured the enemy. (\"Judges:8:1-21\"). Upon Gideon's return, he tore down the tower there and killed all the men of the city. King Jeroboam initially established his kingdom and built up Peniel to be the capital city. (\"1 Kings:12:25\").", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "Jacob named the place Peniel (which means \"face of God\"), for he said, \"I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been spared.\""
"profile name": "Isaac (Seeking Bride)", "profile description": "Isaac, whose name means \"he laughs,\" was the only son of Abraham and Sarah. God blessed Isaac, and Isaac became a wealthy man. He was a man of peace, and when the jealous Philistines filled up his wells, he avoided conflict. Instead of fighting them, he just moved and dug new wells. Isaac died at the age of 180 years, after Jacob had returned with his family from Mesopotamia.", "profile bible infoscan": "Isaac's mother, Sarah, died when he was 36 years old (\"Genesis:23:1\"). After her death, Abraham sent a servant to find a wife for Isaac from his relatives in Mesopotamia. Rebekah was God's choice, and Isaac loved her very much (\"Genesis:24:15\"). For twenty years, Isaac and Rebekah were childless, but after he prayed earnestly, Rebekah fell pregnant with twins. Isaac was 60 years old at that time. God blessed Isaac, and he became a wealthy man. He was a man of peace, and when the jealous Philistines filled up his wells, he avoided conflict. Instead of fighting them, he just moved and dug new wells. When Isaac moved to Beersheba, the Lord appeared to him and repeated the promise He had given his father Abraham. Isaac built an altar there and worshiped the Lord (\"Genesis:26:23-25\").", "profile life lessons": "Having favorites causes family conflict", "profile key scripture": "\"Before he had finished praying, Rebekah came...\""
"profile name": "The 4th Person in the Fire", "profile description": "Suddenly the king was amazed and jumped up! Weren't there only three men who were tied up and thrown into the furnace? Now there were four people and one looked like a god! All four were walking around unharmed in the roaring flames. Who was the fourth person; an angel or the Son of God? The Bible doesn't specifically say. What we do know is that the person was sent by God to rescue His servants in a miraculous way!", "profile bible infoscan": "\"So Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, securely tied, fell into the roaring flames. But suddenly, Nebuchadnezzar jumped up in amazement and exclaimed to his advisers, \"Didn't we tie up three men and throw them into the furnace?\" \"Yes, Your Majesty, we certainly did,\" they replied. \"Look!\" Nebuchadnezzar shouted. \"I see four men, unbound, walking around in the fire unharmed! And the fourth looks like a god!\" Then Nebuchadnezzar came as close as he could to the door of the flaming furnace and shouted: \"Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out! Come here!\" So Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego stepped out of the fire.\" (\"Daniel:3:23-26\"). How could anyone question that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego would instantly die in the roaring flames of the furnace. Even the soldiers who threw them into the furnace died from the blazing heat - outside the furnace! King Nebuchadnezzar must have rubbed his eyes and blinked a few times, then squinted into the smoky inferno that he had made seven times hotter than usual. How could this be - three men were tied up and thrown into the furnace; now there were four; and they were walking around- unharmed! Three men went in, and three men came out, yet in the flames - there were four. Who was this fourth person in the fire? King Nebuchadnezzar said that he looked like a god or a son of the gods. He also calls him an angel sent by God. (\"Daniel:3:25\"). The Bible doesn't specifically tell us who he is. He may have been an angel sent by God as the king said. Many Bible scholars believe however, that the fourth being was an Old Testament appearance of Jesus, the Son of God. Theologians call this a theophany, or an appearance of God. Theophany is Greek, meaning \"God\" (Theo) and \"to reveal oneself\" (Phaneia). What Nebuchadnezzar most likely saw in the fire - the fourth man - was Jesus; God in human form. There are many pre-incarnate (before Jesus came to earth as a man) appearances in the Old Testament - He is just not called the name of Jesus. Bible teachers say that the Son of God is mentioned more than 150 times, by many names in the Old Testament. He is so clearly identified throughout the Old Testament that apostle Paul even used the occurrences to teach about Jesus. (\"Acts:28:23\"). Here are a few of the names that are attributed to Jesus in the Old Testament: Angel of the Lord, Lord of Hosts, Commander of the Lord's Army, The Son of Man. Regardless of whom the fourth person was - it represented God's presence and power to rescue those who serve and trust Him - just as Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego had declared! \"Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego replied, \"O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you. If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God whom we serve is able to save us. He will rescue us from your power, Your Majesty. But even if he doesn't, we want to make it clear to you, Your Majesty, that we will never serve your gods or worship the gold statue you have set up.\" If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God whom we serve is able to save us. He will rescue us from your power, Your Majesty.\" (\"Daniel:3:16-18\"). We can trust God just like the three Hebrew men. Wherever we find ourselves; we are not alone. God is with us. Isaiah 43:2 says, \"When you go through deep waters, I will be with you. When you go through rivers of difficulty, you will not drown. When you walk through the fire of oppression, you will not be burned up; the flames will not consume you.\"", "profile life lessons": "God is with us no matter where we are.", "profile key scripture": "\"Look!\" Nebuchadnezzar shouted. \"I see four men, unbound, walking around in the fire unharmed! And the fourth looks like a god!\""
"profile name": "New Jerusalem", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Jerusalem, the Holy City, was (and still is) the religious center for the Jews. In John's vision, he sees a New Jerusalem (\"Revelation:21:1\"), which is perfect and eternal. It is a heavenly city, not built by human hands but built and provided by God Himself (\"Revelation:21:2\"). The New Jerusalem is the dwelling place of God, Jesus, and the church. It symbolizes righteousness, peace, and prosperity. In Israel, the Temple (the center of worship) is located in Jerusalem. However, in John's vision of the New Jerusalem, there is no temple because \"the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple\" (\"Revelation:21:22\"). The New Jerusalem is described as being a city of pure gold, as clear as glass and with walls of jasper (\"Revelation:21:18\"). The main street is pure gold and as clear as glass, and the twelve gates are made of pearls (\"Revelation:21:21\"). The city needs no sun or moon as the glory of God lights up the city (\"Revelation:21:23\"). Only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life will be allowed to enter the city (\"Revelation:21:27\"). God's holy presence is in New Jerusalem: \"God's home is now among his people! He will live with them, and they will be his people and God himself will be with them. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes and there will be no sorrow, crying, or pain. All these things are gone forever. I am making everything new\" (\"Revelation:21:3-5\"). What an amazing place it will be!", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven like a bride beautifully dressed for her husband.\""
"profile name": "Ahab", "profile description": "Ahab, who ruled the northern kingdom from 874 to 853 BC, was considered the wickedest king of Israel. The Old Testament speaks of Ahab more than any other king of the northern kingdom of Israel. Four chapters are devoted to Ahab's reign (1 Kings 18, 20-22).", "profile bible infoscan": "Ahab was the son of Omri, who was an evil king of Israel. Omri did what was evil in God's sight more than any of the kings before him. Ahab became king of Israel after his father, and ruled for twenty-two years. Ahab did even more evil in God's sight than his father! (\"1 Kings:16:25\"). During Ahab's reign, he allowed a man to rebuild Jericho, which was forbidden by God. As punishment, two of the man's sons died according to God's curse upon the city (\"1 Kings:16:34\") (\"Joshua:6:26\"). Ahab married Jezebel, the daughter of the King of Tyre (Phoenicia) and built an ivory palace for her (\"1 Kings:22:39\"). The Bible says that Jezebel was an evil influence on Ahab. \"No one else so completely sold himself to what was evil in the Lord's sight as Ahab did under the influence of his wife Jezebel.\" (\"1 Kings:21:25\"). Jezebel supported 450 prophets of Baal and 400 prophets of Asherah. Ahab built a temple in honor of Baal, and set up an Asherah Pole for the people of Israel to worship (\"1 Kings:18:19\"). Elijah was sent by God to confront King Ahab about his evil ways. As punishment, Elijah predicted a drought that would last for three and a half years. Immediately after this prophecy, God hid Elijah from King Ahab and Jezebel by the Kerith Brook (\"1 Kings:17:1-3\"). Ahab referred to Elijah as the troublemaker of Israel. Elijah did not back down in (\"1 Kings:19:18\"): \"I have made no trouble for Israel,\" Elijah replied. \"You and your family are the troublemakers, for you have refused to obey the commands of the Lord and have worshiped the images of Baal instead.\" Elijah then issued Ahab a challenge. He confronted Ahab and the false prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel to determine the one true God of Israel! God answered with fire and proved that He alone was the one true God! (\"1 Kings:18:16-40\"). Some time later, King Ahab coveted a vineyard that was located next to his palace. The vineyard was owned by a man named Naboth. Ahab offered to buy the vineyard, but Naboth refused to give up the land that he inherited from his ancestors. Jezebel came up with an evil plan to kill Naboth and take the land for Ahab. God sent Elijah to confront Ahab about stealing the land from Naboth and killing him. Elijah delivered the word from God and predicted how King Ahab and his family would die (\"1 Kings:21:1-24\"). Ahab mourned and repented when he heard the words of Elijah. He tore his clothing, dressed in burlap and fasted. In an amazing act of mercy, God told Elijah that he would not carry out the punishment because Ahab had repented! However, the punishment was carried out on his family after he died. Leading up to his death, Ahab followed the unwise counsel of over 400 of his prophets, instead of listening to God's true prophet, Micaiah. Ahab joined forces with King Jehoshaphat and attacked Aram, to recover the city of Ramoth-Gilead. Ahab took off his royal clothing and disguised himself to look like a soldier so he would be safe. The trick failed when he was wounded by a stray arrow and soon after bled to death and died (1 Kings 22:1-40). The Old Testament speaks more of Ahab than any other king of the northern kingdom of Israel, devoting approximately four chapters to Ahab's evil reign (1 Kings 18, 20-22).", "profile life lessons": "Do not allow compromise in your life, but stay true to the things of God you learn from the Bible.", "profile key scripture": "But Ahab son of Omri did what was evil in the Lord's sight, even more than any of the kings before him."
"profile name": "Jesus", "profile description": "Jesus is revealed in the Bible as the Son of God. He was first given this title by Gabriel, who spoke to Mary, saying: \"So the baby to be born will be holy, and he will be called the Son of God\" (Luke 1:35). After Jesus was baptized by John, God said, \"This is my dearly beloved Son, who brings me great joy.\" As the Son of God, Jesus was all powerful on earth. He healed the sick, cast out demons, walked on water, calmed the sea, and had the authority to forgive sins.", "profile bible infoscan": "Jesus is revealed in the Bible as the Son of God. Gabriel, who spoke to Mary, saying, first gave him this title \"So the baby to be born will be holy, and he will be called the Son of God\". (\"Luke:1:35\"). After John baptized Jesus, the heavens opened, and the Spirit of God descended like a dove and settled on Him while God's voice said, \"This is my dearly beloved Son, who brings me great joy\". (\"Matthew:3:16\"). This is a picture of the Trinity: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. As the Son of God, Jesus existed and was present when, \"In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth\". (\"Genesis:1:1\"). Jesus is also referred to as the Word of God. (\"Revelation:19:13\"). John 1:1-5 says, \"In the beginning the Word already existed. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. He existed in the beginning with God. God created everything through him, and nothing was created except through him. The Word gave life to everything that was created, and his life brought light to everyone. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness can never extinguish it.\" Jesus always revealed God the Father to the human race. \"Anyone who has seen me, has seen the Father,\" Jesus told Philip (\"John:14:9\"). Jesus used His power as God's Son to glorify God and never to fulfill His own personal desires. Jesus never used His power to amaze people or to dominate the world by force. The devil even tried to tempt Jesus, but Jesus used the Scriptures to overcome the devil. As the Son of God, Jesus was all-powerful on earth. Yet, He modeled what it means to be humble and serve others when He washed His disciples' feet. (\"John:13:1\"). Jesus' first miracle was to turn water into wine at a wedding celebration in Cana. This was to Honor a request from Mary, His mother. Because of this miracle, the disciples believed in Him. (\"John:2:12\"). This was just the beginning of the signs and wonders that Jesus performed on the earth! He healed the sick, lame, and blind. He cast out demons, raised the dead, walked on water, calmed the sea, and had the authority to forgive sins. (\"Matthew:8:2\"). Jesus miraculously fed over 5000 people with only five loaves of bread and two fish a little boy gave Him. (\"Matthew:14:15\"). He walked on water and calmed storms. (Matthew 8:23-27; 14:24-33). The Bible tells us that Jesus performed many more miracles that weren't even recorded in the Bible! (\"John:20:30\"). On different occasions, the religious leaders tested Jesus. They tried to trap Him and discredit Him. This time a scribe asked Jesus a question to test Him. Jesus answered his question by telling a parable called the Good Samaritan. Jesus shocked the scribe by using a Samaritan as the hero of the story. He showed mercy and compassion to his enemy, a Jewish man who was robbed and left for dead. The Jewish priest and Temple assistant did not stop to help the man. They even crossed to the other side of the road to avoid him! Jesus taught that everyone is our neighbor; even our enemies! We are to show mercy, love, and compassion to everyone. (\"Luke:10:25\"). In John 3:16, we read that \"God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.\" The Son of God is the way, the truth, and the life. No one can come to the Father except through Him (\"John:14:6\"). Jesus obeyed and fulfilled God's will while on the earth; even when it meant dying on the cross for our sins. Jesus was called the Lamb of God because He was sinless and spotless making Him the perfect and only acceptable sacrifice for our sin! (\"John:1:29\"). One day, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, will return (John 1:29 14:3, Acts 1:11, Revelation 19:13). Jesus is the way to eternal life with God. Accepting Jesus as your Savior will begin your relationship with God here on earth, as well. The Bible says, \"If you confess with your mouth, 'Jesus is Lord,' and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved\" (\"Romans:10:9\"). To start this relationship with God, you need to believe in your heart and say that Jesus is your Lord. Jesus is in heaven now, seated at the right hand of God. He has gone to prepare a place for you to live with Him forever! (John 14:2-3; Luke 22:69). Jesus honored the request of Mary, His mother, at the wedding celebration in Cana. Jesus performed His first miracle and turned water into wine; not just any wine, but the best wine the guest had tasted! Jesus also had compassion on a huge crowd of over 5000 people that had followed Him. He healed their sick and then miraculously fed them with only the five loaves of bread and two small fish a young boy had brought that day. There wasn't anything that Jesus couldn't do!", "profile life lessons": "Jesus is the Son of God.", "profile key scripture": "For God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life."
"profile name": "The Disciples", "profile description": "Jesus' disciples gathered in the upstairs room on the Day of Pentecost with the other believers as they waited for God's promise. the Holy Spirit came and filled all of them with power to tell others about Jesus. Peter and the others lives were transformed. They shared the Gospel with boldness and performed signs and wonders as the church grew.", "profile bible infoscan": "The word disciple means \"learner,\" \"pupil,\" or \"follower.\" The word is used generally for all followers of Jesus and specifically for the twelve men Jesus hand picked to train and follow Him closely while on the earth. The twelve were symbolic of the twelve tribes of Israel. (\"Matthew:19:28\"). The names of Jesus' disciples are listed in Matthew 10:1-4, Marks 3:16-19, and Luke 6:12-16. His disciples were also called apostles. The word apostle means, \"One who is sent\" or \"sent forth.\" Following His death and resurrection, Jesus appeared to His disciples many times. \"During the forty days after his crucifixion, He appeared to the apostles from time to time, and He proved to them in many ways that He was actually alive. And He talked to them about the Kingdom of God.\" (\"Acts:1:3\"). Jesus also sent the disciples out with His authority to be His witnesses. This is called the Great Commission and applies to all of His disciples, today! \"Then the eleven disciples left for Galilee, going to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. When they saw Him, they worshiped Him - but some of them doubted! Jesus came and told His disciples, \"I have been given all authority in heaven and on earth. Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach these new disciples to obey all the commands I have given you. And be sure of this: I am with you always, even to the end of the age.\" Jesus disciples were told to go make new disciples and train them as He had trained them! They would receive power from the Holy Spirit to make disciples in every nation. (\"Acts:1:8\"). Jesus' disciples were also privileged to see Jesus ascend to heaven. (\"Acts:1:6-11\"). Following His ascension, eleven of His disciples were present in the Upper Room; waiting in prayer for the gift of the Father on the Day of Pentecost. Peter and the other disciples were filled with the Spirit and with boldness. They explained to the crowd what was happening. (\"Acts:2:14\"). By the power of God's Spirit, Peter's message pierced the hearts of all who were present and 3,000 people were baptized and added to the church! (\"Acts:2:37-41\"). The apostles worked in power and unity to grow and strengthen the new church. \"All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and to fellowship, and to sharing in meals (including the Lord's Supper), and to prayer. A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many miraculous signs and wonders.\" (\"Acts:2:42-43\"). During this time, the eleven disciples chose a man named Matthias to replace Judas Iscariot, who had betrayed Jesus and taken his own life. Some scholars believe that Matthias was not God's choice and Paul, instead, should have eventually been selected to take Judas' place. (\"Acts:1:18-26\"). Jesus' disciples, though chosen by Jesus, were not special men. They were made up of tax collectors, fishermen, and other ordinary people who chose to leave everything and follow Jesus. (\"Matthew:19:27-28\"). Even so, after sharing The Last Supper (Passover meal) with Jesus, all of His disciples showed their human frailty and weakness. Peter, James, and John fell asleep in the Garden of Gethsemane instead of praying with Jesus. Judas betrayed Him to the Jewish leaders. Peter denied Jesus' three times as He had predicted and warned. All of His disciples deserted and abandoned Him when He needed them the most. (\"Matthew:26:14\"). Even so, Jesus did not reject His disciples; He came to them again to restore and send them out to do His work! (John 21). By God's Spirit, their failures and weaknesses were replaced with God's strength. (\"2 Corinthians:12:9-10\"). They were transformed into powerful vessels that God used to perform miracles, proclaim the Gospel, and make new disciples! (\"Acts:2:42-47\")", "profile life lessons": "As disciples we must be obedient to wait and pray, just as Jesus told those in Acts.", "profile key scripture": "\"On the day of Pentecost all the believers were meeting together in one place.\""
"profile name": "Young Samuel", "profile description": "The boy Samuel served the Lord by assisting Eli. Now in those days messages from the Lord were very rare, and visions were quite uncommon. One night Eli, who was almost blind by now, had gone to bed. The lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was sleeping in the Tabernacle near the Ark of God. The Lord called out to Samuel, starting him on a journey to redeem Israel.", "profile bible infoscan": "Samuel was the son of Hannah and Elkanah. Samuel was a miracle from God. He was God's answer to Hannah's passionate prayer for a son when she was unable to have a baby. 1 Samuel 1:10-11 says, \"And she made this vow: \"O Lord of Heaven's Armies, if you will look upon my sorrow and answer my prayer and give me a son, then I will give him back to you. He will be yours for his entire lifetime, and as a sign that he has been dedicated to the Lord, his hair will never be cut.\" God gave her a son and Hannah was true to her word. She named the baby Samuel which means \"I asked the Lord for him.\" (\"1 Samuel:1:20\"). Many believe that Samuel was about three years old when Hannah took him to Eli to serve at the Tabernacle. The Bible says that Samuel's mother took him after she had weaned him, but his exact age is not recorded. Hannah said, \"Now I am giving him to the Lord, and he will belong to the Lord his whole life.\" (\"1 Samuel:1:28\" ; (\"1 Samuel:2:11\"). Young Samuel served the Lord and Eli faithfully. His obedience and respect for them stood in direct contrast to the disobedience and wickedness of Hophni and Phinehas, Eli's sons. 1 Samuel 1:26 says, \"Meanwhile, the boy Samuel grew taller and grew in favor with the Lord and with the people.\" Each year Hannah made a small coat for Samuel to wear. She brought it to Samuel when Elkanah's family came to make the annual sacrifice at the Tabernacle. Samuel must have worn it under his priestly garments. 1 Samuel 2:18 says, \"But Samuel, though he was only a boy, served the Lord. He wore a linen garment like that of a priest.\" One night, as Samuel was sleeping in the Tabernacle, God called out to him two separate times. Each time, young Samuel thought Eli had called him and went into Eli's room. 1 Samuel 3:7 says, \"Samuel did not yet know the Lord because he had never had a message from the Lord before.\" Twice, Eli told Samuel that he hadn't called him and to go back to bed. The third time Eli recognized that it was God calling young Samuel. He told Samuel to say, Speak Lord, Your servant is listening.\" A third time God called and Samuel answered as Eli had instructed him to do. God then revealed to Samuel that He was about to judge and punish Eli's family for their disobedience and wickedness. The next day, Samuel shared God's message with Eli. (\"1 Samuel:3:10\"). This was the start of young Samuel's prophetic calling from the Lord!", "profile life lessons": "God does NOT only call on grown-ups. He called Samuel and through Samuel, called David.", "profile key scripture": "Samuel replied, \"Speak, your servant is listening.\""
"profile name": "The Upper Room", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Jesus and his disciples ate the Passover meal at the home of a \"certain man\" (\"Matthew:26:18\"). The room where they ate their meal is traditionally known as the Upper Room. The \"city\" (verse 18) may have been Jerusalem itself or it may have been one of the suburbs like Bethany. We do not know the exact location of this room, although historians have suggested possible sites. It is also considered to be the place where the disciples continued to meet (\"Acts:1:13\") and where the disciples were meeting on the day of Pentecost. Over the centuries, various artists have made religious paintings of the Last Supper in the Upper Room. Leonardo da Vinci's painting is one of the most famous.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"As you go into the city,\" he told them, \"you will see a certain man. Tell him, 'The Teacher says: My time has come, and I will eat the Passover meal with my disciples at your house.'\" So the disciples did as Jesus told them and prepared the Passover meal there."
"profile name": "Malta", "profile description": "Malta was the tiny island that Paul was shipwrecked on during a terrible storm in the Mediterranean Sea. All of the people on the ship survived as foretold by an angel to Paul. The people of Malta treated the ship's men kindly. Paul healed many sick people on Malta during his three month stay - including the father of Publius, the chief official of the island.", "profile bible infoscan": "Acts 27-28 tells the story of the Apostle Paul traveling on a ship to Rome when they encountered a bad storm that lasted for several days. \"Acts:27:14-15\" says, \"But the weather changed abruptly, and a wind of typhoon strength (called a \"northeaster\") burst across the island and blew us out to sea. The sailors couldn't turn the ship into the wind, so they gave up and let it run before the gale. The terrible storm raged for many days, blotting out the sun and the stars, until at last all hope was gone.\" They were shipwrecked on the tiny Island of Malta or Melite. All of the people on the ship survived and made it to shore. Some swam and others held onto planks or debris from the ship. This fulfilled the angel's prophesy who appeared to Paul on the ship. (\"Acts:27:22-25\"). The people on the island were very kind to Paul and all who were on the ship. They built a fire to welcome and warm them. While adding sticks to the fire, Paul was bitten by a poisonous snake. To the amazement of all, Paul shook the snake off his hand and was unharmed. The people of Malta then decided that he was a god. (\"Acts:28:1-6\"). Paul spent three days at the estate of Publius, the chief official of the island where he was treated kindly. Publius's father was ill and Paul prayed as he laid hands on him and the man was healed. Then all the other sick people on the island came and were healed. As a result the people honored Paul and supplied Paul and the others on the ship with supplies for the trip to Rome when another ship came. (Acts 28:7-10). The shipwreck is believed to have occurred in the place today known as St Paul's Bay. The rocky island of Malta is located in the Mediterranean Sea is about sixty-two miles south of Sicily and 1200 miles from Jerusalem. The island is only about 17 miles long and 9 miles wide. Throughout history, Malta's location and good harbors in the middle of the Mediterranean have given it great strategic importance. Malta gained independence from the United Kingdom in 1964 and became a republic in 1974. Malta was admitted to the United Nations in 1964 and to the European Union in 2004. In 2008, it became part of the Eurozone, which is a group of European nations whose national currency is the euro. Today, Catholicism continues to be the official and most widespread religion in Malta.", "profile life lessons": "The people of Malta thought Paul was a god because he wasn't killed by the snake. This miracle introduced them to Almighty God.", "profile key scripture": "The people of the island were very kind to us. It was cold and rainy, so they built a fire on the shore to welcome us."
"profile name": "Noah", "profile description": "The world was fraught with evil. So evil, in fact, that God vows to destroy the world, saving only Noah. God tells Noah, the only \"righteous man\" on earth, to gather his family and a menagerie of animal kinds. Noah obeys, displaying his unwavering faith in God.", "profile bible infoscan": "Noah was the son of Lamech, who was a descendant of Adam's son Seth. Noah's name actually means \"relief.\" Noah's grandfather was Methuselah who lived for 969 years. Noah was married and had three sons named Shem, Ham, and Japheth when he was 500 years old! (\"Genesis:5:25-32\"). During the time of Noah, God looked at what was going on in the world He created and finally said enough is enough! \"The Lord observed the extent of human wickedness on the earth, and He saw that everything they thought or imagined was consistently and totally evil. So the Lord was sorry He had ever made them and put them on the earth. It broke his heart.\" (\"Genesis:6:5-6\"). He decided to wipe all living things off the earth - except for Noah, who was a righteous light in the sinful darkness. Noah found favor with God. The Bible tells us that Noah was righteous, the only blameless person living on earth. He walked in close fellowship with God. (\"Genesis:6:8-13\"). In the book of Ezekiel, Noah's righteousness is twice mentioned along with Daniel and Job. (\"Ezekiel:14:14\"). God spoke to Noah and gave him specific instructions to build an ark or large boat. \"Build a large boat from cypress wood and waterproof it with tar, inside and out. Then construct decks and stalls throughout its interior. Make the boat 450 feet long, 75 feet wide, and 45 feet high. Leave an 18-inch opening below the roof all the way around the boat. Put the door on the side, and build three decks inside the boat - lower, middle, and upper.\" (\"Genesis:6:14-16\"). God told Noah that He was about to cover the earth with a flood that would destroy every living, breathing thing. He said that Noah and his family would enter the ark, along with a male and female of every kind of animal. Noah was charged with keeping them alive while on the ark during the flood. He had to gather enough food for his family and the animals. In addition, he was to bring approved types of animals to eat and to sacrifice to God as an offering. Noah didn't cut any corners or take any shortcuts; he did everything exactly as God commanded him. (\"Genesis:6:22\"). Noah had to trust God completely. It is unlikely that people of that day had even seen rain, let alone a flood! Hebrews 11:7 tells us: \"It was by faith that Noah built a large boat to save his family from the flood. He obeyed God, who warned him about things that had never happened before. By his faith Noah condemned the rest of the world, and he received the righteousness that comes by faith.\" It would seem that Noah was both a preacher in word and by action warning the world of the coming judgment as they watched the ark take shape. Surely, people stopped to ask Noah what he was doing and he took advantage of the opening to talk about God and His plan. No doubt many people mocked Noah as he labored to complete the huge task he was given. \"2 Peter:2:5\" says, \"And God did not spare the ancient world - except for Noah and the seven others in his family. Noah warned the world of God's righteous judgment. So God protected Noah when he destroyed the world of ungodly people with a vast flood\" When the ark was finished, God instructed Noah to take his family and all of the animals into the ark. The door was not closed. We can see God's love and mercy here as he waited to see if any other people would heed Noah's warning and enter the ark to be saved. After seven days, it began to rain and God shut the door behind them. The rain would not stop for forty days and nights. Noah was 600 years old when the flood covered the earth. (\"Genesis:7:1-16\"). The waters rose and increased greatly on the earth, and the ark floated safely on the surface. The water kept rising until the water was 22 feet about the highest mountain peaks! Every living thing that moved on land perished - birds, livestock, wild animals, all the creatures that swarm over the earth, and all humanity. God wiped out everyone and everything outside the ark of safety. Only Noah and those with him in the ark survived. The waters flooded the earth for 150 days. (\"Genesis:7:17-24\"). But God did not forget Noah, his family, and all the animals in the ark. When the forty days were over, He sent a wind over the earth. The torrential rains from the sky and the underground waters stopped flowing; the floodwaters then started to recede. \"After 150 days, exactly five months from the time the flood began, the boat came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. Two and a half months later, as the waters continued to go down, other mountain peaks became visible. (\"Genesis:8:3-5\"). Forty days later, Noah opened the window and released a raven. The bird flew back and forth until the floodwaters on the earth had dried up.Then Noah released a dove, but the dove could find no place to land because the water still covered the ground and it returned to Noah. Seven days later, Noah released the dove and it returned to him in the evening with a fresh olive leaf in its beak. Noah knew that the floodwaters were almost gone. He waited another seven days and then released the dove again. This time it did not come back. (\"Genesis:8:6-12\"). When Noah was 601 years old, ten and a half months after the flood began, the floodwaters had almost dried up from the earth. Two more months went by, and at last the earth was dry! God told Noah and his family to leave the boat and to release all of the animals so they could multiply and fill the earth! (\"Genesis:8:13-17\"). \"Then Noah built an altar to the LORD and, taking some of all the clean animals and clean birds, he sacrificed burnt offerings on it. The LORD smelled the pleasing aroma and said in his heart: 'I will never again curse the ground because of the human race, even though everything they think or imagine is bent toward evil from childhood. I will never again destroy all living things'\" (\"Genesis:8:20-21\"). God blessed Noah and his sons and told them to multiply and repopulate the earth! (\"Genesis:9:1\"). He made a covenant with Noah, his sons, and all the animals on the boat. \"Yes, I am confirming my covenant with you. Never again will floodwaters kill all living creatures; never again will a flood destroy the earth.\" (\"Genesis:9:11\"). God then said that a rainbow in the clouds would be a sign of this covenant. \"When I send clouds over the earth, the rainbow will appear in the clouds, and I will remember my covenant with you and with all living creatures. Never again will the floodwaters destroy all life. When I see the rainbow in the clouds, I will remember the eternal covenant between God and every living creature on earth.\" (\"Genesis:9:12-17\") Even though Noah was seen as righteous in God's eyes, he was still human, and it wasn't long before Noah sinned before God and became drunk. Ham then sinned against his father and Noah pronounced a curse against Ham's son, Canaan. (\"Genesis:9:18-27\"). The Bible tells us Noah lived 350 years after the flood, making him 950 years old. (\"Genesis:9:28\").", "profile life lessons": "Trust and obey God, even if you're scared.", "profile key scripture": "Noah was a righteous man, the only blameless person living on earth at the time, and he walked in close fellowship with God."
"profile name": "Ananias", "profile description": "Ananias' name means \"God is gracious.\" He was a Christian believer living in Damascus at the time of Saul's encounter with Jesus on the road. Because of a vision he received from God, Ananias went to Saul, greeted him as a brother, laid hands on him, and explained the meaning of what had happened to him on the road to Damascus. Saul's sight was miraculously restored, and he was baptized (Acts 22:12-16).", "profile bible infoscan": "Ananias' name means \"God is gracious.\" He was a Christian believer living in Damascus at the time of Saul's encounter with Jesus on the road. In a vision, the Lord told Ananias to go to Saul. Ananias knew that Saul of Tarsus was an enemy of the Christians, but God reassured him and explained that Saul had been specially chosen to be a messenger of the Gospel. God also told Ananias that Saul would suffer for His name's sake (\"Acts:9:13-16\"). Ananias went to Saul, greeted him as a brother, laid hands on him, and explained the meaning of what had happened to him on the road to Damascus. Saul's sight was miraculously restored, and he was baptized (\"Acts:22:12-16\").", "profile life lessons": "Trust and obey God, even if you're scared.", "profile key scripture": "\"But the Lord said, 'Go, for Saul is my chosen instrument to take my message to the Gentiles and to kings, as well as to the people of Israel.'"
"profile name": "Joseph (Mary's Husband)", "profile description": "Of the people in my database, he is one of my favorites. He didn't HAVE to be Jesus' earthly father, but he CHOSE to obey what God said. He was a descendant of David and the husband of Mary, the mother of Jesus. He was a man of integrity who held strong beliefs and always tried to do what was right.", "profile bible infoscan": "Joseph didn't HAVE to be Jesus' earthly father, but he CHOSE to obey what God said. He was a descendant of David and the husband of Mary, the mother of Jesus (\"Matthew:1:16\" , \"Luke:3:23\"). He was a man of integrity. He held strong beliefs, and he always tried to do what was right. When he learned that Mary was pregnant, he knew the child was not his. He wanted to break the engagement in such a way that Mary would not suffer public shame. God showed him in a dream that the child was God's. He instructed Joseph to take Mary as his wife Mary and to name the baby Jesus. For Joseph, believing this was difficult enough - but obeying it was a really BIG DEAL. In other dreams, an angel of the Lord told Joseph to flee with his family to Egypt and later to return to Nazareth. Each time, Joseph obeyed God's guidance immediately (\"Matthew:2:21\"). Around Nazareth, Jesus was known as \"Joseph's son\" (\"Luke:4:22\" , \"John:1:45\" , \"John:6:42\"). He was Jesus' earthly and legal father. We don't know how long Joseph lived, but he was last mentioned when Jesus was 12 years old when he took his family to Jerusalem for the Passover. We know Joseph was a carpenter or woodworker as Jesus was referred to as \"the carpenter's son\" (\"Matthew:13:55\" , \"Mark:6:3\"). During Jesus' ministry as an adult, there is no mention of Joseph, so it is assumed that he was dead. Joseph was most likely the father of James, Joseph, Simon, Judas (not the one who later betrayed Jesus), and he had daughters, as well (\"Matthew:13:55\" , \"Mark:6:3\").", "profile life lessons": "Submit to God's will.", "profile key scripture": "\"When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord commanded. He brought Mary home to be his wife.\""
"profile name": "Boaz", "profile description": "Boaz was related to Naomi and he ended up marrying Ruth.", "profile bible infoscan": "Boaz was a hero that came to the rescue of Naomi and Ruth! God worked powerfully to provide and protect them. He then preserved their family name by having a son with Ruth named Obed. Boaz was a wealthy landowner who showed kindness and respect to the laborers in his fields. Boaz was related to Naomi's husband and connected by marriage to Ruth. Boaz showed kindness to Ruth when he discovered her gathering grain in his fields. He ordered his workers to not bother her. Then he told them to purposely drop barley from their bundles for her to gather. Boaz spoke a blessing to Ruth for being loyal and kind to Naomi. (Ruth 1-4). By Jewish custom, Boaz as a close relative should redeem, or buy back, the property of Naomi. This is known as a kinsman-redeemer. He would also be responsible to marry Ruth and care for her. And, when possible, raise up an heir to carry on the family name of the person that died. This was a commitment that not all men were willing to undertake. (\"Leviticus:25:25\"). In the case of Ruth and Boaz, there was a kinsman-redeemer more closely related to Naomi. He had the first right to buy her land and marry Ruth. Boaz went to the city gate, where legal matters were conducted in ancient Israel. Boaz asked the other relative if he intended to purchase Naomi's land and marry Ruth. The relative said he could not. This allowed Boaz, who was next in line, to redeem the land and marry Ruth. Boaz married Ruth and God blessed them with a son named Obed. This son carried on the family name of Naomi's husband that had died. As a redeemer, Boaz is considered to be a symbol of Jesus, our Redeemer. Ruth and Boaz's son, Obed, was the father of Jesse, and grandfather of David. Boaz is mentioned in both the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke as an ancestor of Jesus. (\"Luke:3:32\") (\"Matthew:1:5\").", "profile life lessons": "God loves the rich and the poor and treats them equally.", "profile key scripture": "Then Boaz said to the leaders and to the crowd standing around, \"You are witnesses that today I have bought from Naomi all the property of Elimelech, Kilion, and Mahlon. And with the land I have acquired Ruth, the Moabite widow of Mahlon, to be my wife. This way she can have a son to carry on the family name of her dead husband and to inherit the family property here in his hometown. You are all witnesses today.\""
"profile name": "Satan", "profile description": "Make no mistake: God is the hero in our story, but there is also a villain - and his name is Satan. Lucifer was a fallen angel that was transformed into Satan. Satan certainly exists today, but the good news is that he has been defeated by the death and resurrection of Jesus!", "profile bible infoscan": "Satan, called the Accuser, appeared before God in heaven giving us a glimpse of his activity in \"Job:1:7\" : \"Where have you come from?\" the Lord asked Satan. Satan answered the Lord, \"I have been patrolling the earth, watching everything that's going on.\" Satan told God that the reason Job feared and served him was because of God's wall of protection and provision. Satan told God if those things were taken away, Job would curse God to His face! God then allowed Satan to put Job to the test, but his power was limited; he could not attack Job physically. Job lost his children, farmhands, and servants. Only four messengers escaped. In addition, Job's oxen, donkeys, and camels were stolen and his sheep were burned up. (\"Job:1:6-19\"). Satan has no respect and regard for life. The Bible tells us that Satan comes to steal, kill, and destroy. He lived up to his reputation as he cruely tested Job. (\"John:10:10\"). Job would not turn on God; even in his devastation and grief, he remained faithful to God. He did not blame Him and continued to praise His name! (\"Job:1:20-21\"). Satan is relentless - he does not give up easily. We saw this when he tested Jesus in the wilderness and with Joseph in Potiphar's house. (\"Luke:4:13\" ; \"Genesis:39:6-18\"). Satan came before God a second time and said that Job would curse God if Satan took away his health. God allowed Satan to test Job a second time but again limited what he could do. \"All right, do with him as you please,\" the Lord said to Satan. \"But spare his life.\" So Satan left the Lord's presence, and he struck Job with terrible boils from head to foot.\" (\"Job:2:6-7\"). Job suffered tremendously but still refused to say anything against God. Satan was defeated once more! (\"Job:2:8-10\"). In \"Isaiah:14:13-14\" , we learn that Lucifer became a fallen angel and was transformed into Satan. Another Old Testament passage gives us a picture of Satan's original position, his rebellion and his fall from heaven (\"Ezekiel:28:11-19\").The name Satan means \"adversary\" or \"enemy.\" In the New Testament, another common name for Satan is the devil, which means \"slanderer\" or \"false accuser\", which he is referred to in \"Job:1:6\" and \"Revelation:12:10\" . Other titles include: - The tempter (\"1 Thessalonians:3:5\") - Beelzebub (\"Matthew:12:24\") - The wicked/evil one (\"Matthew:13:19\" , \"Matthew:13:38\") - The ruler/prince of this world (\"John:12:31\") - The god of this age/this evil world (\"2 Corinthians:4:4\") - Belial (\"2 Corinthians:6:15\") - The commander of the powers of the unseen world (\"Ephesians:2:2\") Satan's different names reveal what he is like. It helps us to understand the way he works: Temptation - He tempts people to sin against God (\"Matthew:4:1\"). Deception - He lies and makes the truth appear false (\"John:8:44\"). He blinds our understanding of God's Word and the Gospel of salvation through Christ (\"2 Corinthians:4:4\"). Anything that helps him oppose God's rule in the world (\"Ephesians:6:11-18\" , \"1 Peter:5:8-9\"). Job passed the two tests that Satan gave him. Satan suffered defeat because Job refused to turn against God and blame Him. Satan certainly exists today, but the good news is that he has been defeated by the death and resurrection of Jesus! God gives Christians the power to withstand his attacks. Satan's final defeat will come when Jesus returns and Satan is cast into the lake of fire (\"Revelation:20:1-10\"). That is the moment that Satan is defeated once and for all!", "profile life lessons": "Satan is described as \"prowling around like a lion ready to attack,\" so be aware of this and remember that you have victory over Satan through Jesus Christ.", "profile key scripture": "So humble yourselves before God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you."
"profile name": "Job's Wife", "profile description": "Job's wife is famous for encouraging her husband to give up on his faith in God. She turned to Job and said, \"Are you still trying to maintain your integrity? Curse God and die.\" Although Job considered her response foolish, we see later that Job honors her by the way he talks about her in Chapter 31. In the end, God restores Job and his wife with twice as much as before.", "profile bible infoscan": "The name of Job's wife isn't given. We know her only by her discouraging words to her husband; \"Are you still trying to maintain your integrity? Curse God and die.\" Job responded that she spoke as a foolish woman and that we need to maintain our faith in God even when bad things happen. It is easy to write her off, but we must also understand that she had just suddenly lost all of her children and possessions. Now, she watched helplessly as her husband physically suffered in agony with boils without relief. (Job 1-2). Job's wife is not directly mentioned again in the Bible. Throughout Job's testing, she stayed with Job and endured the hardships with him. In Job chapter 42, Job's wife shared in God's blessing and restoration of their family and possessions. The second part of their life was even more blessed than the first. Job and his wife enjoyed twice what they had before, including seven sons and three daughters. Their daughters were the most beautiful women in the land. The couple lived with their children and grandchildren for four generations.", "profile life lessons": "Even if we get angry with God, He is merciful to forgive us if we repent.", "profile key scripture": "Are you still trying to maintain your integrity? Curse God and die."
"profile name": "Goliath", "profile description": "Whoa! More incoming data. GOLIATH was born in Gath and he grew to be a giant of a man. He was a soldier who fought in the Philistine army. As the army of Saul formed a battle line against the invading Philistines, Goliath, their champion, stepped forward and challenged the Israelites to send a man against him in single combat to decide which army would claim victory.", "profile bible infoscan": "Goliath was born in Gath, and he grew to be a giant of a man (\"1 Samuel:17:4\"). He was a soldier who fought in the Philistine army. The Philistines, like the ancient Greeks, sometimes decided issues of war by choosing champions who met in combat between the armies. As the army of Saul formed a battle line against the invading Philistines, Goliath, their champion, stepped forward and challenged the Israelites to send a man against him in single combat to decide which army would claim victory. The Israelites' terrified response revealed their loss of faith in the promises of God and their search for security in a human king (\"1 Samuel:17:8-11\"). David, however, responded to the challenge because Goliath defied God. Can you believe that? David had so much faith in how big God was, he hardly gave a thought to how small he seemed compared to Goliath! Goliath ridiculed and threatened others. He defied God and when he fought David, he didn't realize that he was also fighting a holy and powerful God. And, of course, the astonishing victory only confirmed that the Lord's anointing was on David's life.", "profile life lessons": "Don't rely on your own strength and abilities.", "profile key scripture": "David replied to the Philistine, \"You come to me with sword, spear, and javelin, but I come to you in the name of the LORD of Heaven's Armies - the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. Today the Lord will conquer you...\""
"profile name": "King of Jericho", "profile description": "The King of Jericho heard that Israeli spies were infiltrating his city, so he increased security and reinforced the city walls. The king was confident that his walls would prevent an Israelite invasion. He was in for big a surprise!", "profile bible infoscan": "The name of the king of Jericho is not mentioned in the Bible. What we know about him is found in Joshua 2:2-3: \"But someone told the king of Jericho, \"Some Israelites have come here tonight to spy out the land.\" So the king of Jericho sent orders to Rahab: \"Bring out the men who have come into your house, for they have come here to spy out the whole land.\" Instead, Rahab hid the spies and told the king's men that they had left the city. The king's men went looking for the spies outside the city When they left, the king increased security. \"Now the gates of Jericho were tightly shut because the people were afraid of the Israelites. No one was allowed to go out or in\" (\"Joshua:6:1\"). The king's walls were no match for God. \"But the LORD said to Joshua, 'I have given you Jericho, its king, and all its strong warriors'\" (\"Joshua:6:2\"). \"Joshua:12:9\" lists the king of Jericho as the first king of a total of thirty one kings that Israel defeated.", "profile life lessons": "God always knows what He will do.", "profile key scripture": "But the Lord said to Joshua, 'I have given you Jericho, its king, and all its strong warriors.'"
"profile name": "Zechariah", "profile description": "Zechariah is the husband of Elizabeth and the father of John the Baptist. He is a priest of the sons of Aaron. His wife, Elizabeth, was also of the priestly family of Aaron, and she was the cousin of Mary the mother of Jesus. Their marriage was childless because Elizabeth was barren and they were both very old. The Bible says that they were both righteous before God, since they were \"blameless\" in observing the commandments and ordinances of the Lord (\"Luke:1:5\").", "profile bible infoscan": "Zechariah was a priest in Jerusalem during the reign of King Herod. He was also the husband of Elizabeth and the father of John the Baptist. Zechariah was a member of the priestly order of Abijah. His wife, Elizabeth, was also of the priestly family of Aaron. Their marriage was childless because Elizabeth was barren and they were both very old. The Bible says that the couple was righteous before God. They were careful to obey all of the Lord's commandments and regulations. (\"Luke:1:5-7\"). One day, Zechariah was serving in the Temple and performing the offering of the incense. Suddenly, an angel of the Lord named Gabriel, appeared. Zechariah was shaken and overwhelmed with fear. \"But the angel said, \"Don't be afraid, Zechariah! God has heard your prayer. Your wife, Elizabeth, will give you a son, and you are to name him John. You will have great joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth.\" (Luke 1:8-13-14). Gabriel went on to say that John would be great in the eyes of the Lord. He would be filled with the Holy Spirit even before his birth! He would also prepare the people for the coming of the Lord! What wonderful and amazing news. Unfortunately, Zechariah doubted all that was told him. He asked how he could be sure this would happen since he and his wife were old. \"Then the angel said, \"I am Gabriel! I stand in the very presence of God. It was He who sent me to bring you this good news! But now, since you didn't believe what I said, you will be silent and unable to speak until the child is born. For my words will certainly be fulfilled at the proper time.\" (\"Luke:1:8-20\"). Imagine receiving such amazing news and not being able to speak to share it! When Zechariah left the Temple, the people who had been praying outside realized that he had seen a vision because he couldn't speak. (\"Luke:1:21-22\"). Soon after, Elizabeth became pregnant, confirming the words of Gabriel! At the proper time, Elizabeth gave birth, and on the eighth day, when their son was to be circumcised according to the Old Testament commandment, her family and neighbors assumed that the baby would be named after his father. But Elizabeth insisted that his name was to be John. When the family questioned this, Zechariah wrote on a tablet, \"His name is John.\" Immediately Zechariah was able to speak again and began praising God. Zechariah was then filled with the Holy Spirit and began to prophesy. This prophecy is traditionally called the \"Benedictus\", from the word praise. He praised God for visiting and redeeming His people and for sending a mighty Savior just as God had promised through His prophets long ago. He then prophesied that John, his little son, would prepare the way for the Lord. John would tell people how to find salvation through forgiveness of their sins. (\"Luke:1:57-79\")", "profile life lessons": "It is important for us to believe God voice and then to act on it.", "profile key scripture": "They were both righteous before God, since they were \"blameless\" in observing the commandments and ordinances of the Lord."
"profile name": "Baby Jesus", "profile description": "There is no man, woman, or child who has ever lived that is more important than Jesus. Jesus is the human-divine Son of God born of the Virgin Mary. When Jesus was born, God's promise of a Savior was fulfilled.", "profile bible infoscan": "There is no man, woman, or child who has ever lived that is more important than Jesus. He is the human-divine Son of God, born of the Virgin Mary. He was born as the King of the Jews in Bethlehem toward the end of Herod the Great's reign (37-4 B.C.). Early in His life, Jesus was taken to Nazareth where He was brought up by His mother and her husband, Joseph, a carpenter by trade. Jesus was often referred to as Jesus of Nazareth, son of Joseph (\"John:1:45\"). The only incident we have of Jesus' childhood is His Passover trip to Jerusalem when He was 12 years old (\"Luke:2:41-52\"). After His baptism by John (\"Matthew:3:13-17\"), Jesus began His public ministry. He chose 12 disciples who went with him as He taught the people, healed the sick, performed miracles, and preached about the kingdom of heaven and eternal life. During one Passover week, Jesus was arrested by the religious leaders and later handed over to the Roman ruler, Pilate. He was sentenced to death on the cross. After three days, Jesus rose from the dead (\"John:20\") and, forty days later, ascended into heaven (\"Acts:1:6-11\"). Jesus died to pay the penalty for our sin (\"1 Corinthians:15:3-4\") and made it possible for us to have a relationship with God (\"Romans:5:11\"). Jesus was God's plan of salvation from the beginning. In \"Genesis:3:15\" , God told the deceiving serpent, \"From now on, you and the woman will be enemies, and your offspring and her offspring will be enemies. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel.\" This was a prophecy or promise that Jesus would defeat Satan and death. (See the Superbook episode \"In the Beginning.\") The Jewish people were waiting for the mighty Messiah to come and rescue them. He did come but in the humble form of a baby - not at all what they were expecting! Jesus' name means \"Savior\" or \"Jehovah [Yahweh] is salvation.\" He is also called Jesus Christ. \"Christ\" is a title that means \"anointed.\" In the Bible, other names for Jesus are: Immanuel - God is with us (\"Isaiah:7:14\") Messiah - the Anointed One (\"Mark:14:61-62\") Son of Man - this title was Jesus' favorite way of referring to himself (\"Mark:2:10\" , \"Acts:7:56\") Son of God (\"Mark:1:11\") The Word of God (\"John:1:1-18\") The Holy One of God (\"John:6:69\") The Lord (\"1 Corinthians:12:3\") God (\"John:20:28\") When Jesus was born, God's promise of a Savior was fulfilled. There is one more promise that still needs to be fulfilled: the promise of Christ's return (\"John:14:3\"). Until then, Jesus commands His followers to tell others about Him (\"Acts:1:8-11\").", "profile life lessons": "Do God's will, no matter what.", "profile key scripture": "\"Jesus told him, 'I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one can come to the Father except through me.'\""
"profile name": "Prodigal - Older Son", "profile description": "The older son was at work in the fields. He heard the sound of celebration. The news of his brother's return angers him. He refuses to join the celebration.", "profile bible infoscan": "The older son was at work in the fields. He heard the sound of celebration. The news of his brother's return angered him, and he refused to join the celebration. His father came out and begged the older son to come in, but he replied: \"All these years I've slaved for you and never once refused to do a single thing you told me to. And in all that time you never gave me even one young goat for a feast with my friends. Yet when this son of yours comes back after squandering your money on prostitutes, you celebrate by killing the fattened calf!\" (\"Luke:15:28\"). The older son in the parable represents the attitude of the Pharisees and all self-righteous, legalistic people. These people take pride in their good deeds and condemn others for faults and failures rather than to show mercy and forgiveness. They look down on people who aren't doing what they believe they should do and feel superior to them. The father explained to his older son why they were celebrating. \"His father said to him, \"Look, dear son, you have always stayed by me, and everything I have is yours. We had to celebrate this happy day. For your brother was dead and has come back to life! He was lost, but now he is found!\" (\"Luke:15:31\"). May God help us to always be filled with His love and compassion so we celebrate the lost that are found and return home to our heavenly Father.", "profile life lessons": "God is always ready to pour out His love and mercy on us.", "profile key scripture": "If you forgive those who sin against you, your heavenly Father will forgive you."
"profile name": "Ruth", "profile description": "Ruth was a Moabitess, who married into the Hebrew family of Elimelech and Naomi. Naomi decides that it is time to return to her homeland of Israel and Ruth insists on returning with Naomi.", "profile bible infoscan": "Ruth was a Moabite woman. She married into the Hebrew family of Elimelech and Naomi. They had moved from Bethlehem to Moab because of a famine. After Naomi's husband died, both of Naomi's sons married Moabite women. The women's names were Orpah and Ruth. Ten years later, Naomi's sons died. The three women were now widows. (\"Ruth:1:5\"). Naomi decided to move back to Bethlehem when she heard that the famine was over. The three women began their journey to Bethlehem. But on the way, Naomi told Orpah and Ruth to return to their mother's homes. Naomi wanted them both to be able to marry again and have a family while they were still young. She kissed them good-bye and the three women broke down and wept together. Orpah then said good-bye but Ruth clung tightly to Naomi. (\"Ruth:1:15\"). Ruth's words are an amazing example of loyalty and faithfulness in a difficult time. \"But Ruth replied, \"Don't ask me to leave you and turn back. Wherever you go, I will go; wherever you live, I will live. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. Wherever you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. May the Lord punish me severely if I allow anything but death to separate us!\" (\"Ruth:1:17\"). Ruth was \"all in\", not only with Naomi, but also with God and His people. Naomi and Ruth arrived in Bethlehem at the beginning of the barley harvest in late Spring. She began to glean or gather grain that had been dropped by the harvesters in the field. This field, it turns out, belonged to Boaz, a relative of her father-in-law, Elimelech. Boaz was kind to his harvesters. He warmly greeted them and gave them God's blessing. Boaz told Ruth to stay in his fields and not go to any other fields. Ruth was surprised by his kindness and fell at his feet to thank him. She told him she was only a foreigner. \"Yes, I know,\" Boaz replied. \"But I also know about everything you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband. I have heard how you left your father and mother and your own land to live here among complete strangers. May the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge, reward you fully for what you have done.\" Ruth's loyalty and kindness to Naomi was no secret! Boaz continued to show kindness to Ruth as she worked. He gave her protection, food and water. Ruth worked in the fields through both the barley and wheat harvest. She continued to live with Naomi and provided food for both them. (\"Ruth:1:22\"). One night, Ruth followed Naomi's instructions to reveal her desire for Boaz to become her kinsman-redeemer. According to Leviticus 25:25, the nearest relative should marry a widow to care for her. Boaz once again praised her loyalty, this time for the loyalty she showed to him! Boaz states his desire to marry Ruth and calls her a virtuous woman, meaning that she was pure and righteous. Ruth then waited as Boaz worked out the details with another relative. This relative could have redeemed Naomi's property before him! Boaz did redeem Naomi's property and married Ruth. God blessed them with a son named Obed. The final chapter of the book of Ruth explains how Ruth became the great-grandmother of David. Boaz begot Obed; Obed begot Jesse; and Jesse begot David (\"Ruth:4:17\"). Ruth is also the ancestor of Joseph, the husband of Mary. And, she is one of the five women mentioned in the genealogy of Matthew 1. The connection between Ruth and David is very important. Jesus was born of Mary, betrothed to Joseph of the lineage of David. As the great-grandmother of King David, Ruth is an ancestor of Jesus! (Ruth 3-4).", "profile life lessons": "Be loyal and reliable even in difficult times.", "profile key scripture": "But Ruth replied, \"Don't ask me to leave you and turn back. Wherever you go, I will go; wherever you live, I will live. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God.\""
"profile name": "Hannah", "profile description": "Hannah was the wife of Elkanah. She was grieved because she couldn't have babies. Then on one of their annual trips to the temple Hannah began to pray. In her prayer she promised God, 'If you give me a son I will dedicate my son to you for his whole life.'", "profile bible infoscan": "Hannah was the wife of Elkanah. She was grieved because she couldn't have babies. Then on one of their annual trips to the temple Hannah began to pray. In her prayer she promised God, 'If you give me a son I will dedicate my son to you for his whole life.'(\"1 Samuel:1:11\"). Eli stopped by and blessed her prayer. 'Go in peace and may God bless your request.' God remembered Hannah and gave her a son, and she named him Samuel. Hannah kept her promise and gave Samuel back to God. When Samuel was older she went back to the place where she had prayed and said to Eli the priest, 'Do you remember me? I am the woman that cried and prayed for this child and He answered my prayer. Now I give him to the Lord and I will leave him with you to learn and work with you.'", "profile life lessons": "Don't worry, pray.", "profile key scripture": "\"O Lord of Heaven's Armies, if you will look upon my sorrow and answer my prayer and give me a son, then I will give him back to you. He will be yours.\""
"profile name": "Pilate", "profile description": "Pontius Pilate was a Roman governor of Judea. When Jesus was brought before him to be judged, Pilate was convinced that Jesus hadn't done anything to deserve the death sentence. However, he didn't want to make the Jews angry and damage his career, so he handed Jesus over to be executed (Matthew 27:26).", "profile bible infoscan": "Pontius Pilate was the 5th Roman governor of Judea from A.D. 26-36. He governed the area of Judea in which Jerusalem was situated. As governor, he had absolute authority over the non-Roman citizens in his district. Pilate was not popular with the Jews as he carried out his policies stubbornly -- but when the Jews opposed him, he often backed down, showing his weakness of character. We know Pilate was married because his wife warned him to have nothing to do with \"that innocent man\" (Jesus) as she had suffered a terrible nightmare about Him (\"Matthew:27:19\"). Jews could not be executed without the approval from the Roman authorities (\"John:18:31\"), and that is why the Jewish leaders brought Jesus to Pilate to pronounce the death sentence (\"Mark:14:64\"). Pilate was convinced that Jesus had not done anything that deserved the death sentence, and Pilate tried to release Him. However, he didn't want to make the Jews angry in case it damaged his reputation and his career. When the Jews insisted on Jesus' crucifixion, Pilate handed Him over to be executed (\"Matthew:27:26\"). Pilate showed weakness of character in that, although he had the power to set Jesus free, he pleased the crowd and acted selfishly. He \"washed his hands\" of the matter and did not accept responsibility for his actions (\"Matthew:27:24\"). He went against what he knew was right and chose to do wrong.", "profile life lessons": "Have the strength to stand up for what you believe to be right.", "profile key scripture": "Pilate saw that he wasn't getting anywhere, and that a riot was developing. So he sent for a bowl of water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, 'I am innocent of this man's blood. The responsibility is yours!'"
"profile name": "Gold, Frankincense, and Myrrh", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "You've heard the Christmas songs, so you know what three gifts the Magi brought Jesus. But do you know why these three items WERE those gifts? It is that these three gifts were suitable for a king. GOLD: a precious and expensive gift fit for a king. Gold is mentioned over 500 times in the Bible, more than any other metal. It was used to make very important objects: the high priest's vest (\"Exodus:28:5\"), crowns (\"Psalms:21:3\"), chains (\"Genesis:41:42\"), and coins (\"1 Chronicles:21:25\"). It was also used in the building and furnishing of Solomon's Palace and the Temple. FRANKINCENSE: a gift often used in religious rites. Frankincense is taken from the Boswellia tree. The frankincense is obtained by cutting into the bark and collecting the resin from the tree. When this substance hardens, it is gathered and used as incense. Frankincense was part of the sacred anointing oil (\"Exodus:30:34\"). It was used in sacrificial offerings (\"Leviticus:2:1\") as a fumigant during animal sacrifices (\"Exodus:30:7\") and also as a perfume (\"Song of Songs:3:6\"). MYRRH: was a spice used to anoint a body for burial. Myrrh is an extract from the resin of Commiphora trees, a stiff-branched tree with white flowers and fruit like plums. After it is extracted from the wood, it hardens and can be used as an article for trade. Myrrh was used in embalming (\"John:10:39\"), as an ingredient in anointing oil (\"Exodus:30:23\"), and as perfume (\"Psalms:45:8\" , \"Proverbs:7:17\"). According to \"Mark:15:23\" , the drink offered to Jesus before His crucifixion was \"wine mingled with myrrh.\"", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "They entered the house and saw the child with his mother, Mary, and they bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasure chests and gave him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh."
"profile name": "Publius", "profile description": "Publius, the chief official of the island, showed great kindness to Paul and the other shipwrecked passengers. Through Paul, God healed Publius' father, showing His power and love to Publius and the people of Malta.", "profile bible infoscan": "Publius was the chief official of the island of Malta. He welcomed and treated Paul and the ship's crew and passengers with kindness. Paul was invited to spend three days at Publius' estate. The father of Publius was ill; Paul laid hands on him, prayed and he was healed! Paul then prayed for all the sick on the island and they were healed too. Publius and the people of Malta honored Paul and gave the passengers and crew all the supplies they needed to continue their trip to Rome. (\"Acts:28:1-10\").", "profile life lessons": "If you have faith, like Paul did, God will do great things through you -- even miracles, if you will believe.", "profile key scripture": "As it happened, Publius's father was ill with fever and dysentery. Paul went in and prayed for him, and laying his hands on him, he healed him."
"profile name": "Burning Bush", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "The burning bush was an extraordinary manifestation of God's divine presence and glory. Moses was surprised to see the flames, but he was even more surprised that the bush did not burn. This can be seen as a symbol of God's people--burned but not consumed, cast down but not destroyed (\"2 Corinthians:4:9\"). Through the fire, God gave Moses a gracious call to which Moses returned a ready answer (\"Exodus:3:4\"). In his approach to God, he was deeply affected and aware of the distance between him and God (\"Exodus:3:5\"). At first, Moses saw a dazzling burning bush and was not afraid. But once he knew God was in it, he became afraid, hid his face, and showed reverence to God. The closer one gets to God, the more one has cause for worship. In His gracious call to Moses, God instructed him to go back to Egypt and lead His people out of bondage.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "\"Do not come any closer,\" the Lord warned. \"Take off your sandals, for you are standing on holy ground.\""
"profile name": "Golgotha", "profile description": "", "profile bible infoscan": "Golgotha is the place where Jesus was crucified, a hill just outside the walls of Jerusalem (\"Mark:15:22\"). Golgotha means \"place of the skull.\" The place is also referred to as \"Calvary,\" which is English for the Latin word \"calvaria,\" meaning \"skull.\" No one really knows why Golgotha (Calvary) was called the \"place of the skull.\" It has been suggested that it was a place of execution or that it was near a cemetery or that the outcropping of rock looks like the shape of a human skull.", "profile life lessons": "", "profile key scripture": "Carrying the cross by himself, he went to the place called Place of the Skull (in Hebrew, Golgotha)."

